" But his mother hung back.	并列句
She was still afraid.	陈述句
Will looked up and down the narrow street in the evening light, along the little terrace of houses, each behind its tiny garden and its box hedge, with the sun glaring off the windows of one side and leaving the other in shadow.	并列句
There wasn't much time.	陈述句
People would be having their meal about now, and soon there would be other children around, to stare and comment and notice.	并列句
It was dangerous to wait, but all he could do was persuade her, as usual.	并列句
"Mum, let's go in and see Mrs.	并列句
Cooper," he said.	陈述句
" "Mrs.	陈述句
Cooper?	疑问句
He had to put down the bag to do it, because his other hand still held his mother's.	陈述句
The door opened, and there was the stooped elderly figure of the piano teacher, with the scent of lavender water about her as he remembered.	并列句
"Who's that?	疑问句
Is that William?	疑问句
" the old lady said.	陈述句
What do you want, dear?	疑问句
" "I want to come in, please, and bring my mother," he said firmly.	并列句
Cooper looked at the woman with the untidy hair and the distracted half-smile, and at the boy with the fierce, unhappy glare in his eyes, the tight-set lips, the jutting jaw.	并列句
And then she saw that Mrs.	并列句
Parry, Will's mother, had put makeup on one eye but not on the other.	并列句
And she hadn't noticed.	并列句
And neither had Will.	并列句
Something was wrong.	陈述句
"Well.	陈述句
" she said, and stepped aside to make room in the narrow hall.	并列句
Cooper saw how tightly Mrs.	陈述句
Parry was clinging to her son's hand, and how tenderly he guided her into the sitting room where the piano was (of course, that was the only room he knew); and she noticed that Mrs.	并列句
Parry's clothes smelled slightly musty, as if they'd been too long in the washing machine before drying; and how similar the two of them looked as they sat on the sofa with the evening sun full on their faces, their broad cheekbones, their wide eyes, their straight black brows.	并列句
" the old lady said.	陈述句
"What's the matter?	疑问句
I don't mean she's ill.	陈述句
She won't be hard to look after.	陈述句
" The woman was looking at her son without seeming to understand, and Mrs.	并列句
Will hadn't taken his eyes off Mrs.	陈述句
"I've brought some packets of food, enough to last, I should think.	陈述句
You could have some of it too.	陈述句
She won't mind sharing.	陈述句
" "But.	陈述句
I don't know if I should.	陈述句
" "No!	陈述句
She's not ill.	陈述句
" "But there must be someone who can.	陈述句
I mean, isn't there a neighbor or someone in the family—" "We haven't got any family.	并列句
Only us.	陈述句
And the neighbors are too busy.	并列句
" "What about the social services?	疑问句
I don't mean to put you off, dear, but—" "No!	陈述句
I'm going to.	陈述句
But I'll be back soon, and I'll take her home again, I promise.	并列句
You won't have to do it for long.	陈述句
" The mother was looking at her son with such trust, and he turned and smiled at her with such love and reassurance, that Mrs.	并列句
"Well," she said, turning to Mrs.	陈述句
Parry, "I'm sure it won't matter for a day or so.	并列句
You can have my daughter's room, dear.	陈述句
She won't be needing it again.	陈述句
" "Thank you," said Will, and stood up as if he were in a hurry to leave.	并列句
" said Mrs.	陈述句
Cooper.	陈述句
"I'm going to be staying with a friend," he said.	陈述句
"I'll phone up as often as I can.	陈述句
It'll be all right" His mother was looking at him, bewildered.	陈述句
"Don't worry," he said.	陈述句
"Mrs.	陈述句
Cooper will look after you better than me, honest.	陈述句
And I'll phone up and talk to you tomorrow.	并列句
" They hugged tightly, and then Will kissed her again and gently unfastened her arms from his neck before going to the front door.	并列句
Cooper could see he was upset, because his eyes were glistening, but he turned, remembering his manners, and held out his hand.	并列句
"Good-bye," he said, "and thank you very much.	陈述句
" That wasn't what she meant, and both of them knew it; but somehow Will was in charge of this business, whatever it was.	并列句
As Will came around the corner, his cat, Moxie, rose up from her favorite spot under the still-living hydrangea and stretched before greeting him with a soft meow and butting her head against his leg.	并列句
He picked her up and whispered, "Have they come back, Moxie?	并列句
Have you seen them?	疑问句
" The house was silent.	陈述句
In the last of the evening light the man across the road was washing his car, but he took no notice of Will, and Will didn't look at him.	并列句
The less notice people took, the better.	陈述句
Holding Moxie against his chest, he unlocked the door and went in quickly.	并列句
Then he listened very carefully before putting her down.	陈述句
There was nothing to hear; the house was empty.	陈述句
He opened a tin for Moxie and left her to eat in the kitchen.	并列句
There was no way of telling, so he'd better move quickly.	并列句
He was looking for a battered green leather writing case.	陈述句
Will searched his mother's bedroom first, ashamed to be looking through the drawers where she kept her underclothes, and then he worked systematically through the rest of the rooms upstairs, even his own.	并列句
Moxie came to see what he was doing and sat and cleaned herself nearby, for company.	并列句
As he was finishing his meal, the phone rang.	陈述句
He counted: twenty-six rings, and then it stopped.	并列句
He put his plate in the suik and started to search again.	并列句
Four hours later he still hadn't found the green leather case.	陈述句
It was half past one, and he was exhausted.	并列句
He lay on his bed fully clothed and fell asleep at once, his dreams tense and crowded, his mother's unhappy, frightened face always there just out of reach.	并列句
And almost at once, it seemed (though he'd been asleep for nearly three hours), he woke up knowing two things simultaneously.	并列句
First, he knew where the case was.	陈述句
And second, he knew that the men were downstairs, opening the kitchen door.	并列句
He lifted Moxie out of the way and softly hushed her sleepy protest.	并列句
Then he swung his legs over the side of the bed and put on his shoes, straining every nerve to hear the sounds from downstairs.	并列句
They were very quiet sounds: a chair being lifted and replaced, a short whisper, the creak of a floorboard.	并列句
Moving more silently than the men were, he left his bedroom and tiptoed to the spare room at the top of the stairs.	并列句
It wasn't quite pitch-dark, and in the ghostly gray predawn light he could see the old treadle sewing machine.	并列句
He'd been through the room thoroughly only hours before, but he'd forgotten the compartment at the side of the sewing machine, where all the patterns and bobbins were kept.	并列句
He felt for it delicately, listening all the while.	陈述句
The men were moving about downstairs, and Will could see a dim flicker of light that might have been a flashlight at the edge of the door.	并列句
He crouched in the dimness, heart pounding, listening hard.	陈述句
The two men were in the hall downstairs.	陈述句
He heard one of them say quietly, "Come on.	陈述句
I can hear the milkman down the road.	陈述句
"We'll have to look upstairs.	陈述句
" "Go on, then.	陈述句
Don't hang about.	陈述句
" Will braced himself as he heard the quiet creak of the top step.	陈述句
The man was making no noise at all, but he couldn't help the creak if he wasn't expecting it.	并列句
Then there was a pause.	陈述句
A very thin beam of flashlight swept along the floor outside.	陈述句
Will waited till the man was framed in the open doorway, and then exploded up out of the dark and crashed into the intruder's belly.	并列句
But neither of them saw the cat.	并列句
As the man had reached the top step, Moxie had come silently out of the bedroom and stood with raised tail just behind the man's legs, ready to rub herself against them.	并列句
The man, who was trained and fit and hard, could have dealt with Will, but the cat was in the way, and as the man tried to move back, he tripped over her.	并列句
With a sharp gasp he fell backward down the stairs and crashed his head brutally against the hall table.	并列句
Will heard a hideous crack, and didn't stop to wonder about it.	并列句
Clutching the writing case, he swung himself down the banister, leaping over the man's body that lay twitching and crumpled at the foot of the flight, seized the tattered tote bag from the table, and was out of the front door and away before the other man could do more than come out of the living room and stare.	并列句
Even in his fear and haste Will wondered why the other man didn't shout after him, or chase him.	并列句
They'd be after him soon, though, with their cars and their cell phones.	并列句
The only thing to do was run.	陈述句
He saw the milkman turning into the close, the lights of his electric cart pallid in the dawn glimmer that was already filling the sky.	陈述句
There he crawled under a bush and lay panting and trembling.	并列句
He couldn't get out of his mind the crack as the man's head struck the table, and the way his neck was bent so far and in such a wrong way, and the dreadful twitching of his limbs.	并列句
He couldn't get it out of his mind, but he had to.	并列句
There was quite enough to think about.	陈述句
His mother: would she really be safe where she was?	疑问句
Mrs.	陈述句
Cooper wouldn't tell, would she?	疑问句
Because he couldn't, now that he'd killed someone.	陈述句
And Moxie.	并列句
Who'd feed Moxie?	疑问句
Would Moxie worry about where they were?	疑问句
Would she try to follow them?	疑问句
It was getting lighter by the minute.	陈述句
It was light enough already to check through the things in the tote bag: his mother's purse, the latest letter from the lawyer, the road map of southern England, chocolate bars, toothpaste, spare socks and pants.	并列句
And the green leather writing case.	并列句
Everything was there.	陈述句
Everything was going according to plan, really.	陈述句
Except that he'd killed someone.	陈述句
Will had first realized his mother was different from other people, and that he had to look after her, when he was seven.	并列句
They were in a supermarket, and they were playing a game: they were allowed to put an item in the cart only when no one was looking.	并列句
When things were in there they were safe, because they became invisible.	陈述句
Will loved his mother very much and often told her so, and she told him the same.	并列句
So when they reached the checkout Will was excited and happy because they'd nearly won.	并列句
And when his mother couldn't find her purse, that was part of the game too, even when she said the enemies must have stolen it; but Will was getting tired by this time, and hungry too, and Mummy wasn't so happy anymore.	并列句
She was really frightened, and they went around and around putting things back on the shelves, but this time they had to be extra careful because the enemies were tracking them down by means of her credit card numbers, which they knew because they had her purse.	并列句
On Monday they went to the bank and closed her account, and opened another somewhere else, just to be sure.	并列句
Thus the danger passed But sometime during the next few months, Will realized slowly and unwillingly that those enemies of his mother's were not in the world out there, but in her mind.	并列句
That made them no less real, no less frightening and dangerous; it just meant he had to protect her even more carefully.	并列句
And from the moment in the supermarket when he had realized he must pretend in order not to worry his mother, part of Will's mind was always alert to her anxieties.	并列句
As for Will's father, he had vanished long before Will was able to remember him.	陈述句
Will was passionately curious about his father, and he used to plague his mother with questions, most of which she couldn't answer.	并列句
" "Where did he go?	疑问句
" "Why did he go?	疑问句
" "Is he dead?	疑问句
" "Will he come back?	疑问句
" The last question was the only one she could help him with.	陈述句
John Parry had been a handsome man, a brave and clever officer in the Royal Marines, who had left the army to become an explorer and lead expeditions to remote parts of the world.	并列句
Will thrilled to hear about this.	陈述句
No father could be more exciting than an explorer.	陈述句
From then on, in all his games he had an invisible companion: he and his father were together hacking through the jungle, shading their eyes to gaze out across stormy seas from the deck of their schooner, holding up a torch to decipher mysterious inscriptions in a bat-infested cave.	并列句
But the older he got, the more Will began to wonder.	并列句
Why were there no pictures of his father in this part of the world or that, riding with frost-bearded men on Arctic sledges or examining creeper-covered ruins in the jungle?	并列句
Had nothing survived of the trophies and curiosities he must have brought home?	并列句
Was nothing written about him in a book?	疑问句
His mother didn't know.	陈述句
But one thing she had said stuck in his mind.	并列句
She said, "One day, you'll follow in your father's footsteps.	陈述句
You'll take up his mantle.	陈述句
" And though Will didn't know what that meant, he understood the sense of it, and felt uplifted with pride and purpose.	并列句
All his games were going to come true.	陈述句
His father was alive, lost somewhere hi the wild, and he was going to rescue him and take up his mantle.	并列句
So he kept his mother's trouble secret.	并列句
There were times when she was calmer and clearer than others, and he took care to learn from her then how to shop and cook and keep the house clean, so that he could do it when she was confused and frightened.	并列句
Any difficulty was better than that.	陈述句
Because there came times when the darkness cleared from her mind, and she was happy again, and she laughed at her fears and blessed him for looking after her so well; and she was so full of love and sweetness then that he could think of no better companion, and wanted nothing more than to live with her alone forever.	并列句
And her state was fragile just then.	并列句
The men wanted to know where John Parry had gone, and whether he'd sent anything back to her, and when she'd last heard from him, and whether he'd had contact with any foreign embassies.	并列句
Will heard his mother getting more and more distressed, and finally he ran into the room and told them to go.	并列句
He looked so fierce that neither of the men laughed, though he was so young.	并列句
They could easily have knocked him down, or held him off the floor with one hand, but he was fearless, and his anger was hot and deadly.	并列句
It was coming true, and he had to be worthy of it.	并列句
And not long afterward the men came back, insisting that Will's mother had something to tell them.	并列句
They came when Will was at school, and one of them kept her talking downstairs while the other searched the bedrooms.	并列句
She didn't realize what they were doing.	陈述句
But Will came home early and found them, and once again he blazed at them, and once again they left.	并列句
Finally they broke into the house when Will had gone to fetch his mother home from the park.	陈述句
When they got home that day they saw the back of the men's car disappearing out of the close, and he got inside to find that they'd been through the house and searched most of the drawers and cupboards.	并列句
He knew what they were after.	陈述句
The green leather case was his mother's most precious possession; he would never dream of looking through it, and he didn't even know where she kept it.	并列句
But he knew it contained letters, and he knew she read them sometimes, and cried, and it was then that she talked about his father.	并列句
He decided first to find somewhere safe for his mother to stay.	陈述句
Cooper.	陈述句
Once his mother was safely there, he was going to find the green leather case and look at what was in it, and then he was going to go to Oxford, where he'd find the answer to some of his questions.	并列句
He'd have to not be noticed harder than he'd ever done in his life before, and keep it up as long as he could, till either he found his father or they found him.	并列句
He was tired to his very bones.	陈述句
He'd eaten at a Burger King and gone to a cinema to hide (though what the film was, he forgot even as he was watching it), and now he was walking along an endless road through the suburbs, heading north.	并列句
No one had noticed nun so far.	并列句
The trouble was that there was nowhere to hide in the gardens of the comfortable houses along this road, and there was still no sign of open country.	并列句
He came to a large traffic circle where the road going north crossed the Oxford ring road going east and west.	并列句
Will was stupefied with exhaustion, and he might have gone on to the north, or he might have laid his head on the grass under one of those trees and slept; but as he stood trying to clear his head, he saw a cat.	并列句
Of course, every cat behaved like that, but all the same Will felt such a longing for home that tears scalded his eyes.	并列句
Eventually the cat turned away.	陈述句
She padded across the road and toward the bushes just beyond the hornbeam trees, and there she stopped.	并列句
Will, still watching, saw the cat behave curiously.	陈述句
She reached out a paw to pat something in the air in front of her, something quite invisible to Will.	陈述句
Then she leaped backward, back arched and fur on end, tail held out stiffly.	并列句
Will knew cat behavior.	陈述句
He watched more alertly as the cat approached the spot again, just an empty patch of grass between the hornbeams and the bushes of a garden hedge, and patted the air once more.	并列句
Again she leaped back, but less far and with less alarm this time.	并列句
After another few seconds of sniffing, touching, and whisker twitching, curiosity overcame wariness.	并列句
Will blinked.	陈述句
When it had gone past, he crossed the road, keeping his eyes on the spot where the cat had been investigating.	陈述句
It wasn't easy, because there was nothing to fix on, but when he came to the place and cast about to look closely, he saw it.	并列句
At least, he saw it from some angles.	陈述句
It looked as if someone had cut a patch out of the air, about two yards from the edge of the road, a patch roughly square in shape and less than a yard across.	并列句
But Will knew without the slightest doubt that that patch of grass on the other side was in a different world.	并列句
He couldn't possibly have said why.	陈述句
He was looking at something profoundly alien.	陈述句
What he saw made his head swim and his heart thump harder, but he didn't hesitate: he pushed his tote bag through, and then scrambled through himself, through the hole in the fabric of this world and into another.	并列句
He found himself standing under a row of trees.	陈述句
But this was the center of a broad boulevard, and at the side of the boulevard was a line of cafes and small shops, all brightly bt, all open, and all utterly silent and empty beneath a sky thick with stars.	并列句
Behind him the full moon shone down over a distant prospect of great green hills, and on the slopes at the foot of the hills there were houses with rich gardens, and an open parkland with groves of trees and the white gleam of a classical temple.	并列句
Just beside him was that bare patch in the air, as hard to see from this side as from the other, but definitely there.	并列句
He bent to look through and saw the road in Oxford, his own world.	并列句
He turned away with a shudder: whatever this new world was, it had to be better than what he'd just left.	陈述句
With a dawning light-headedness, the feeling that he was dreaming but awake at the same time, he stood up and looked around for the cat, his guide.	并列句
No doubt she was already exploring those narrow streets and gardens beyond the cafes whose lights were so inviting.	并列句
Will lifted up his tattered tote bag and walked slowly across the road toward them, moving very carefully in case it all disappeared.	并列句
The air of the place had something Mediterranean or maybe Caribbean about it.	并列句
Will had never been out of England, so he couldn't compare it with anywhere he knew, but it was the kind of place where people came out late at night to eat and drink, to dance and enjoy music.	并列句
Except that there was no one here, and the silence was immense.	并列句
On the first corner he reached there stood a cafe, with little green tables on the pavement and a zinc-topped bar and an espresso machine.	并列句
On some of the tables glasses stood half-empty; in one ashtray a cigarette had burned down to the butt; a plate of risotto stood next to a basket of stale rolls as hard as cardboard.	陈述句
As soon as he'd shut the till, he opened it again, realizing that the money in there might say what this place was called.	陈述句
The currency was called the corona, but he couldn't tell any more than that.	并列句
On the other side of the avenue was the sea.	陈述句
Will found himself facing a harbor enclosed from the left by a stone breakwater and from the right by a headland on which a large building with stone columns and wide steps and ornate balconies stood floodlit among flowering trees and bushes.	并列句
He was wide awake and possessed by wonder.	并列句
From time to time, on his way through the narrow streets, he'd put out a hand to touch a wall or a doorway or the flowers in a window box, and found them solid and convincing.	并列句
Now he wanted to touch the whole landscape in front of him, because it was too wide to take in through his eyes alone.	陈述句
He stood still, breathing deeply, almost afraid.	陈述句
He discovered that he was still holding the bottle he'd taken from the cafe.	陈述句
He drank from it, and it tasted like what it was, ice-cold lemonade; and welcome, too, because the night air was hot.	并列句
He wandered along to the right, past hotels with awnings over brightly lit entrances and bougainvillea flowering beside them, until he came to the gardens on the little headland.	并列句
The building in the trees with its ornate facade lit by floodlights might have been an opera house.	陈述句
There were paths leading here and there among the lamp-hung oleander trees, but not a sound of life could be heard: no night birds singing, no insects, nothing but Will's own footsteps.	并列句
Will made his way there.	陈述句
Every few seconds a tiny wave folded itself over at the sea's edge before sliding back neatly under the next.	陈述句
He dropped his socks beside them and pushed his toes deep into the sand.	并列句
A few seconds later he had thrown off the rest of his clothes and was walking into the sea.	并列句
The water was deliciously between cool and warm.	并列句
He splashed out to the diving platform and pulled himself up to sit on its weather-softened planking and look back at the city.	并列句
And beyond the lighthouse, distant cuffs rose dimly, and beyond them, those great wide rolling hills he'd seen from the place he'd first come through.	并列句
Closer at hand were the light-bearing trees of the casino gardens, and the streets of the city, and the waterfront with its hotels and cafes and warm-lit shops, all silent, all empty.	并列句
And all safe.	并列句
No one could follow him here; the men who'd searched the house would never know; the police would never find him.	陈述句
He had a whole world to hide in.	陈述句
For the first time since he'd run out of his front door that morning, Will began to feel secure.	陈述句
He was thirsty again, and hungry too, because he'd last eaten in another world, after all.	并列句
He dropped the empty bottle into the first rubbish bin he found and walked barefoot along the pavement toward the harbor.	并列句
When his skin had dried a little, he pulled on his jeans and looked for somewhere he'd be likely to find food.	并列句
The hotels were too grand.	陈述句
He looked inside the first hotel, but it was so large that he felt uncomfortable, and he kept moving down the waterfront until he found a little caf6 that looked like the right place.	并列句
He couldn't have said why; it was very similar to a dozen others, with its first-floor balcony laden with flowerpots and its tables and chairs on the pavement outside, but it welcomed him.	并列句
There was a bar with photographs of boxers on the wall, and a signed poster of a broadly smiling accordion player.	并列句
There was a kitchen, and a door beside it that opened on to a narrow flight of stairs, carpeted in a bright floral pattern.	并列句
It was the room at the front.	陈述句
The air was hot and stuffy, and Will opened the glass door onto the balcony to let in the night air.	并列句
Hospitable people lived here.	陈述句
There was a little shelf of books, a magazine on the table, a couple of photographs in frames.	陈述句
His heart raced.	陈述句
He wasn't sure if he'd heard a sound from inside, but something told him that the room wasn't empty.	并列句
But his memory had warned him, and he wasn't standing quite close enough to be knocked over.	并列句
He fought hard: knee, head, fist, and the strength of his arms against it, him, her— A girl about his own age, ferocious, snarling, with ragged dirty clothes and thin bare limbs.	并列句
She realized what he was at the same moment, and snatched herself away from his bare chest to crouch in the corner of the dark landing like a cat at bay.	并列句
And there was a cat beside her, to his astonishment: a large wildcat, as tall as his knee, fur on end, teeth bared, tail erect.	并列句
She put her hand on the cat's back and licked her dry lips, watching his every movement.	并列句
Will stood up slowly.	陈述句
"Who are you?	疑问句
This city?	疑问句
" "I don't know.	陈述句
" "Where do you come from?	疑问句
" "From my world.	陈述句
Where's your daemon?	疑问句
" His eyes widened.	陈述句
But then another shift in things took place, because he realized that they, both girl and stoat, were profoundly afraid of him, as much as if he'd been a ghost.	并列句
"I don't know what you mean.	陈述句
" Then, "Oh!	陈述句
" She stood up slowly.	陈述句
The stoat curled himself around her neck, and his dark eyes never left Will's face.	并列句
"But you're alive," she said, half-disbelievingly.	陈述句
"You en't.	陈述句
You en't been.	陈述句
"I don't know what you mean about demons.	陈述句
it means devil, something evil.	陈述句
" "In your world?	疑问句
" "No.	陈述句
I just found.	陈述句
Like your world, I suppose.	陈述句
" She relaxed a little, but she still watched him intently, and he stayed calm and quiet as if she were a strange cat he was making friends with.	并列句
"Have you seen anyone else in this city?	疑问句
" he went on.	陈述句
"No.	陈述句
" "How long have you been here?	疑问句
" "Dunno.	陈述句
A few days.	陈述句
What sort of dust?	疑问句
He turned away to go downstairs.	陈述句
"I'm hungry," he said.	陈述句
" "I dunno," she said, and followed, keeping her distance from him.	并列句
In the kitchen Will found the ingredients for a casserole of chicken and onions and peppers, but they hadn't been cooked, and in the heat they were smelling bad.	并列句
He swept them all into the dustbin.	陈述句
"Haven't you eaten anything?	疑问句
" he said, and opened the fridge.	并列句
Lyra came to look.	陈述句
"I didn't know this was here," she said.	陈述句
"Oh!	陈述句
The butterfly raised and lowered his wings slowly.	并列句
Will felt he shouldn't stare, though his head was ringing with the strangeness of it.	陈述句
" he said.	陈述句
He found a can of cola and handed it to her before taking out a tray of eggs.	并列句
She pressed the can between her palms with pleasure.	陈述句
She looked at it, frowning.	陈述句
She didn't know how to open it.	陈述句
She licked it suspiciously, and then her eyes opened wide.	并列句
" she said, her voice half hoping and half fearful.	并列句
"Yeah.	陈述句
Once she saw him drink, she followed his example.	陈述句
"I'm going to make an omelette," he said.	陈述句
"D'you want some?	疑问句
" "I don't know what omelette is.	陈述句
" "Well, watch and you'll see.	并列句
Or there's a can of baked beans, if you'd like.	并列句
" He showed her the can.	陈述句
" "In my world servants do the cooking," she said scornfully.	陈述句
" She rummaged through the kitchen cutlery while he broke six eggs into a bowl and whisked them with a fork.	并列句
"That's it," he said, watching.	陈述句
" He pierced the lid and showed her how to open the can.	并列句
Her daemon, a cat again, was dipping his paw in it, too, but he backed away when Will came near.	并列句
"It's not cooked yet," Will said, taking it away.	陈述句
" "At my father's house on Svalbard," she said.	陈述句
"Days and days ago.	并列句
" He lit the gas, melted the butter, poured in the eggs, and let them run all over the base of it.	并列句
She watched him, too, looking at his face and his working hands and his bare shoulders and his feet.	并列句
When the omelette was cooked he folded it over and cut it in half with the spatula.	并列句
She seemed quite willing to take orders if she saw the sense of them, so he told her to go and clear a table in front of the cafe.	并列句
He brought out the food and some knives and forks from a drawer, and they sat down together, a little awkwardly.	并列句
He'd given her most of the beans, but even so he took much longer than she did.	并列句
She was small and slight, but wiry, and she'd fought like a tiger; his fist had raised a bruise on her cheek, and she was ignoring it.	并列句
Her eyes were pale blue, and her hair would be a darkish blond once it was washed; because she was filthy, and she smelled as if she hadn't bathed for days.	并列句
"Laura?	疑问句
" Will said.	陈述句
"Lyra.	陈述句
" "Lyra.	陈述句
Silvertongue?	疑问句
" "Yes.	陈述句
" "Where is your world?	疑问句
How did you get here?	疑问句
" She shrugged.	陈述句
"I walked," she said.	陈述句
"It was all foggy.	陈述句
At least, I knew I was going out of my world.	陈述句
But I couldn't see this one till the fog cleared.	并列句
" "What did you say about dust?	疑问句
But this world seems to be empty.	并列句
I dunno, three days, maybe four.	陈述句
" "Special Dust," she said shortly.	陈述句
" The daemon changed again.	陈述句
Will looked at him with wide wary eyes, and the girl saw his glance.	并列句
" He didn't know what to say.	陈述句
"You have," she went on.	陈述句
"You wouldn't be human else.	陈述句
You'd be.	陈述句
half dead.	陈述句
We seen a kid with his daemon cut away.	陈述句
Even if you don't know you've got a daemon, you have.	陈述句
Like you was a night-ghast or something.	并列句
But then we saw you weren't like that at all.	并列句
" "Me and Pantalaimon.	并列句
But you, your daemon en't separate from you.	并列句
En't there anyone in your world like us?	疑问句
" Will looked at the two of them, the skinny pale-eyed girl with her black rat daemon now sitting in her arms, and felt profoundly alone.	并列句
"I'm tired.	陈述句
I'm going to bed," he said.	陈述句
"Are you going to stay in this city?	疑问句
" "Dunno.	陈述句
I've got to find out more about what I'm looking for.	陈述句
" "Maybe not in this world.	陈述句
But I came here out of a place called Oxford.	并列句
There's plenty of scholars there, if that's what you want.	陈述句
" "Oxford?	疑问句
" "Is there an Oxford in your world, then?	疑问句
You never came from my world.	陈述句
" "No," she said decisively.	陈述句
But in my world there's an Oxford too.	并列句
We're both speaking English, en't we?	疑问句
Stands to reason there's other things the same.	陈述句
How did you get through?	疑问句
Is there a bridge, or what?	并列句
" "Just a kind of window in the air.	陈述句
"Not now," he said.	陈述句
"I want to sleep.	陈述句
Anyway, it's the middle of the night.	陈述句
" "Then show me in the morning!	陈述句
But I've got my own things to do.	并列句
You'll have to find your scholars by yourself.	陈述句
" "Easy," she said.	陈述句
"I know all about Scholars.	陈述句
"I cooked," he said, "so you can wash the dishes.	陈述句
" She looked incredulous.	陈述句
I'm not going to wash them.	陈述句
" "So I won't show you the way through.	陈述句
" "I'll find it by myself.	陈述句
" "You won't; it's hidden.	陈述句
Listen, I don't know how long we can stay in this place.	陈述句
Now I'm going to bed.	陈述句
I'll have the other room.	陈述句
I'll see you in the morning.	陈述句
" He went inside, cleaned his teeth with a finger and some toothpaste from his tattered bag, fell on the double bed, and was asleep in a moment.	并列句
* * * Lyra waited till she was sure he was asleep, and then took the dishes into the kitchen and ran them under the tap, rubbing hard with a cloth until they looked clean.	并列句
She did the same with the knives and forks, but the procedure didn't work with the omelette pan, so she tried a bar of yellow soap on it, and picked at it stubbornly until it looked as clean as she thought it was going to.	并列句
Then she dried everything on another cloth and stacked it neatly on the drainboard.	并列句
Because she was still thirsty and because she wanted to try opening a can, she snapped open another cola and took it upstairs.	并列句
She didn't need to be close to Will to ask about him, but she wanted to look anyway, and she turned his door handle as quietly as she could before going in.	并列句
There was a light on the sea front outside shining straight up into the room, and in the glow reflected from the ceiling she looked down at the sleeping boy.	并列句
Whatever its form was, it would express a nature that was savage, and courteous, and unhappy.	并列句
In the glow from the streetlight she carefully set the hands of the alethiometer, and relaxed her mind into the shape of a question.	并列句
She had asked: What is he?	疑问句
A friend or an enemy?	并列句
The alethiometer answered: He is a murderer.	陈述句
When she saw the answer, she relaxed at once.	陈述句
He could find food, and show her how to reach Oxford, and those were powers that were useful, but he might still have been untrustworthy or cowardly.	并列句
A murderer was a worthy companion.	陈述句
She felt as safe with him as she'd felt with lorek Byrnison, the armored bear.	陈述句
She swung the shutter across the open window so the morning sunlight wouldn't strike in on his face, and tiptoed out.	并列句
TWO AMONG THE WITCHES The witch Serafina Pekkala, who had rescued Lyra and the other children from the experimental station at Bolvangar and flown with her to the island of Svalbard, was deeply troubled.	并列句
In the atmospheric disturbances that followed Lord AsrieFs escape from his exile on Svalbard, she and her companions were blown far from the island and many miles out over the frozen sea.	并列句
Some of them managed to stay with the damaged balloon of Lee Scoresby, the Texan aeronaut, but Serafina herself was tossed high into the banks of fog that soon came rolling in from the gap that Lord AsriePs experiment had torn in the sky.	并列句
So she began to search for her, flying through the cloudy gold-tinged air on her branch of cloud-pine, accompanied by her daemon, Kaisa the snow goose.	并列句
They moved back toward Svalbard and south a little, soaring for several hours under a sky turbulent with strange lights and shadows.	并列句
Serafina Pekkala knew from the unsettling tingle of the light on her skin that it came from another world.	陈述句
After some time had passed, Kaisa said, "Look!	陈述句
A witch's daemon, lost.	陈述句
" Serafina Pekkala looked through the fog banks and saw a tern, circling and crying in the chasms of misty light.	并列句
Seeing them come near, the tern darted up in alarm, but Serafina Pekkala signaled friendship, and he dropped down beside them.	并列句
Serafina Pekkala said, "What clan are you from?	疑问句
" "Taymyr," he told her.	陈述句
"My witch is captured.	陈述句
Our companions have been driven away!	陈述句
" "Who has captured your witch?	疑问句
Help me!	陈述句
I am so afraid!	并列句
" "Was your clan allied with the child cutters?	疑问句
" "Yes, until we found out what they were doing.	陈述句
After the fight at Bolvangar they drove us off, but my witch was taken prisoner.	并列句
They have her on a ship.	陈述句
She is calling to me and I can't find her!	并列句
" "Quiet," said Kaisa, the goose daemon.	陈述句
"Listen down below.	陈述句
" They glided lower, listening with keen ears, and Serafina Pekkala soon made out the beat of a gas engine, muffled by the fog.	并列句
"What are they doing?	疑问句
" "It's a smaller engine than that," said Serafina Pekkala, and as she spoke there came a new sound from a different direction: a low, brutal, shuddering blast, like some immense sea creature calling from the depths.	并列句
"The ship's foghorn," said Serafina Pekkala.	陈述句
They wheeled low over the water and cast about again for the sound of the engine.	并列句
Suddenly they found it, for the fog seemed to have patches of different density, and the witch darted up out of sight just in time as a launch came chugging slowly through the swathes of damp air.	并列句
The swell was slow and oily, as if the water was reluctant to rise.	并列句
There was a light mounted on the bow, but all it lit up was the fog a few yards in front.	并列句
Serafina Pekkala said to the lost daemon: "Did you say there are still some witches helping these people?	疑问句
" "I think so—a few renegade witches from Volgorsk, unless they've fled too," he told her.	陈述句
Will you look for my witch?	疑问句
" "Yes.	陈述句
But stay with Kaisa for now.	并列句
" Serafina Pekkala flew down toward the launch, leaving the daemons out of sight above, and alighted on the counter just behind the steersman.	并列句
His seagull daemon squawked, and the man turned to look.	并列句
" he said.	陈述句
"Get up ahead and guide us in on the port side.	并列句
" She took off again at once.	陈述句
It had worked: they still had some witches helping them, and he thought she was one.	并列句
Port was left, she remembered, and the port light was red.	并列句
She darted back and hovered above the launch calling directions to the steersman, who slowed the craft down to a crawling pace and brought it in to the ship's gangway ladder that hung just above the water line.	并列句
The steersman called, and a sailor threw a line from above, and another hurried down the ladder to make it fast to the launch.	并列句
Serafina Pekkala flew up to the ship's rail, and retreated to the shadows by the lifeboats.	并列句
She could see no other witches, but they were probably patrolling the skies; Kaisa would know what to do.	并列句
Below, a passenger was leaving the launch and climbing the ladder.	并列句
The figure was fur-swathed, hooded, anonymous; but as it reached the deck, a golden monkey daemon swung himself lightly up on the rail and glared around, his black eyes radiating malevolence.	并列句
Serafina caught her breath: the figure was Mrs.	陈述句
A dark-clothed man hurried out on deck to greet her, and looked around as if he were expecting someone else as well.	并列句
But Mrs.	并列句
Have they started the torture?	疑问句
" "Yes, Mrs.	陈述句
Coulter," was the reply, "but—" "I ordered them to wait," she snapped.	陈述句
"Have they taken to disobeying me?	疑问句
" She pushed her hood back.	陈述句
Serafina Pekkala saw her face clearly in the yellow light: proud, passionate, and, to the witch, so young.	并列句
"Where are the other witches?	疑问句
" she demanded.	陈述句
The man from the ship said, "All gone, ma'am.	陈述句
" "But a witch guided the launch in," said Mrs.	陈述句
Coulter.	陈述句
"Where has she gone?	疑问句
" Serafina shrank back; obviously the sailor in the launch hadn't heard the latest state of things.	陈述句
The cleric looked around, bewildered, but Mrs.	并列句
The man followed.	陈述句
Serafina Pekkala looked around to check her position.	陈述句
She was concealed behind a ventilator on the narrow area of decking between the rail and the central superstructure of the ship; and on this level, facing forward below the bridge and the funnel, was a saloon from which windows, not portholes, looked out on three sides.	并列句
Light spilled thickly from the windows onto the fog-pearled railing, and dimly showed up the foremast and the canvas-covered hatch.	并列句
Everything was wringing wet and beginning to freeze into stiffness.	并列句
That was too bad.	陈述句
With her pine branch she could escape, and with her knife and her bow she could fight.	并列句
She hid the branch behind the ventilator and slipped along the deck until she reached the first window.	并列句
It was fogged with condensation and impossible to see through, and Serafina could hear no voices, either.	并列句
She withdrew to the shadows again.	陈述句
It was a kind of magic she could work to make herself unseen.	陈述句
Holding it with the right degree of intensity, she could pass through a crowded room, or walk f beside a solitary traveler, without being seen.	并列句
She was ready.	陈述句
She went to the door of the brightly lit saloon and opened it, finding the room empty.	并列句
She left the outer door ajar so that she could flee through it if she needed to, and saw a door at the far end of the room that opened on to a flight of stairs leading down into the bowels of the ship.	并列句
She descended, and found herself in a narrow corridor hung with white-painted pipework and illuminated with anbaric bulkhead lights, which led straight along the length of the hull, with doors opening off it on both sides.	并列句
It sounded as if some kind of council was in session.	陈述句
A dozen or so people were seated around a large table.	并列句
One or two of them looked up for a moment, gazed at her absently, and forgot her at once.	并列句
She stood quietly near the door and watched.	并列句
Coulter, who was the only woman present.	陈述句
Mrs.	陈述句
Serafina Pekkala looked around carefully and saw someone else in the room as well: a thin-faced man with a frog daemon, seated to one side at a table laden with leather-bound books and loose piles of yellowed paper.	并列句
Then he would open one of the books, search laboriously through the index, and look up a reference before writing that down too and turning back to the instrument.	并列句
Serafina looked back to the discussion at the table, because she heard the word witch.	陈述句
"She knows something about the child," said one of the clerics.	陈述句
"She confessed that she knows something.	陈述句
All the witches know something about her.	陈述句
" "I am wondering what Mrs.	陈述句
Coulter knows," said the Cardinal.	陈述句
"Is there something she should have told us before, I wonder?	疑问句
Coulter icily.	陈述句
"You forget I am a woman, Your Eminence, and thus not so subtle as a prince of the Church.	并列句
What is this truth that I should have known about the child?	疑问句
" The Cardinal's expression was full of meaning, but he said nothing.	并列句
It concerns the child, you see, Mrs.	陈述句
Coulter.	陈述句
All the signs have been fulfilled.	陈述句
The circumstances of her birth, to begin with.	陈述句
Fra Pavel can tell us more, perhaps.	陈述句
" He glanced at the thin-faced man reading the alethiometer, who blinked, rubbed his eyes, and looked at Mrs.	并列句
Coulter.	陈述句
"You may be aware that this is the only alethiometer left, apart from the one in the child's possession," he said.	陈述句
"All the others have been acquired and destroyed, by order of the Magisterium.	并列句
If it were possible to disbelieve the alethiometer, I would do so, because to use the instrument without the books is simply inconceivable to me.	陈述句
She is like no human Scholar I can imagine.	陈述句
"In the other world," said Fra Pavel.	陈述句
" "The witch knows!	陈述句
" said another man, whose muskrat dasmon gnawed unceasingly at a pencil.	陈述句
" demanded Mrs.	陈述句
Coulter, who had been getting increasingly angry.	陈述句
The golden monkey glared around the table, and none of them could look him in the face.	并列句
Only the Cardinal did not flinch.	陈述句
His daemon, a macaw, lifted a foot and scratched her head.	并列句
"I dare not believe what I think it means.	陈述句
If it's true, it places on us the most terrible responsibility men and women have ever faced.	并列句
But I ask you again, Mrs.	并列句
Coulter had lost her flush.	陈述句
"How dare you interrogate me?	疑问句
" she spat.	陈述句
"And how dare you keep from me what you've learned from the witch?	疑问句
D'you think I'm on her side?	疑问句
Or perhaps you think I'm on her father's side?	并列句
Perhaps you think I should be tortured like the witch.	陈述句
Well, we are all under your command, Your Eminence.	陈述句
You have only to snap your fingers and you could have me torn apart.	并列句
But if you searched every scrap of flesh for an answer, you wouldn't find one, because I know nothing of this prophecy, nothing whatever.	并列句
And I demand that you tell me what you know.	并列句
My child, my own child, conceived in sin and born in shame, but my child nonetheless, and you keep from me what I have every right to know!	并列句
"Please, Mrs.	陈述句
Cardinal Sturrock himself says that she's only hinted at it.	陈述句
" "And suppose the witch doesn't reveal it?	疑问句
" Mrs.	陈述句
Coulter said.	陈述句
"What then?	疑问句
We shiver and quail and guess?	并列句
" "And how long will that take?	疑问句
It is an immensely complex question.	陈述句
" "But the witch would tell us at once," said Mrs.	陈述句
Coulter.	陈述句
Serafina Pekkala stood back, fiercely holding herself unseen.	陈述句
Mrs.	陈述句
Coulter swung him up to her shoulder.	陈述句
She turned and swept out into the corridor.	并列句
The men hastened to follow her, jostling and shoving past Serafina Pekkala, who had only time to stand quickly aside, her mind in a turmoil.	并列句
The last to go was the Cardinal.	陈述句
Serafina took a few seconds to compose herself, because her agitation was beginning to make her visible.	陈述句
Then she followed the clerics down the corridor and into a smaller room, bare and white and hot, where they were all clustered around the dreadful figure in the center: a witch bound tightly to a steel chair, with agony on her gray face and her legs twisted and broken.	并列句
Mrs.	陈述句
Coulter stood over her.	陈述句
"Tell us about the child, witch," said Mrs.	陈述句
Coulter.	陈述句
" "You will suffer.	陈述句
" "I have suffered enough.	陈述句
We have a thousand years of experience in this Church of ours.	陈述句
We can draw out your suffering endlessly.	陈述句
It snapped easily.	陈述句
The witch cried out, and for a clear second Serafina Pekkala became visible to everyone, and one or two of the clerics looked at her, puzzled and fearful; but then she controlled herself again, and they turned back to the torture.	并列句
Mrs.	陈述句
Coulter was saying, "If you don't answer I'll break another finger, and then another.	并列句
What do you know about the child?	疑问句
Tell me.	陈述句
Please, please, no more!	陈述句
" "Answer then.	陈述句
Serafina Pekkala could hardly hold herself back.	陈述句
Then came these words, in a shriek: "No, no!	陈述句
I'll tell you!	陈述句
The child who was to come.	陈述句
The witches knew who she was before you did.	陈述句
" "We know her name.	陈述句
What name do you mean?	疑问句
The name of her destiny!	陈述句
Tell me!	陈述句
Coulter.	陈述句
"No.	陈述句
Found out how?	疑问句
" "There was a test.	陈述句
The child with the bear.	陈述句
" Her voice gave out.	陈述句
Coulter gave a little exclamation of impatience, and there came a loud slap, and a groan.	并列句
"But what was your prophecy about this child?	疑问句
" Mrs.	陈述句
"And what is this name that will make her destiny clear?	疑问句
" Serafina Pekkala moved closer, even among the tight throng of men around the witch, and none of them felt her presence at their very elbows.	并列句
She must end this witch's suffering, and soon, but the strain of holding herself unseen was enormous.	并列句
She trembled as she took the knife from her waist.	陈述句
The witch was sobbing.	陈述句
Well, now she has come again, and you failed to find her.	并列句
She escaped, and she will be—" But before she could finish, there came an interruption.	并列句
Through the open doorway there flew a tern, mad with terror, and it beat its wings brokenly as it crashed to the floor and struggled up and darted to the breast of the tortured witch, pressing itself against her, nuzzling, chirruping, crying, and the witch called in anguish, "Yambe-Akka!	并列句
And Serafina was ready.	并列句
The witch saw her and turned up her tear-stained face, and Serafina bent to kiss it and slid her knife gently into the witch's heart.	并列句
The men were still shocked, disbelieving, but Mrs.	并列句
Coulter recovered her wits almost at once.	陈述句
Don't let her go!	陈述句
Out, along the corridor to the stairs, turn, nock, loose, and another man fell; and already a loud jarring bell was filling the ship with its clangor.	并列句
Two sailors barred her way, and she said, "Down there!	并列句
The prisoner has got loose!	陈述句
"Shoot her!	陈述句
" came a cry in Mrs.	陈述句
Coulter's voice from behind, and at once three rifles fired, and the bullets struck metal and whined off into the fog as Serafina leaped on the branch and urged it up like one of her own arrows.	并列句
A few seconds later she was in the air, in the thick of the fog, safe, and then a great goose shape glided out of the wraiths of gray to her side.	并列句
"Where to?	疑问句
" he said.	陈述句
"Away, Kaisa, away," she said.	陈述句
"I want to get the stench of these people out of my nose.	陈述句
Coulter's throat.	陈述句
They turned south, away from that troubling other-world gleam in the fog, and as they flew a question began to form more clearly in Serafina's mind.	并列句
The problem was that the usual sources of her knowledge were natural ones.	陈述句
For knowledge about Lord Asriel, she had to go elsewhere.	陈述句
Lanselius maintained his contact with the world of men and women, and Serafina Pekkala sped there through the fog to see what he could tell her.	并列句
Before she went to his house she circled over the harbor, where wisps and tendrils of mist drifted ghostlike on the icy water, and watched as the pilot guided in a large vessel with an African registration.	并列句
As the short day faded, she flew down and landed in the back garden of the consul's house.	并列句
Lanselius himself opened the door, a finger to his lips.	陈述句
"Come in quickly, and welcome.	并列句
But you had better not stay long.	并列句
" He offered her a chair at the fireside, having glanced through the curtains out of a window that fronted the street.	陈述句
' She sipped the golden Tokay and told him of what she had seen and heard aboard the ship.	并列句
"Do you think they understood what she said about the child?	疑问句
" he asked.	陈述句
"Not fully, I think.	陈述句
But they know she is important.	并列句
Lanselius.	陈述句
"So am I.	陈述句
" And Serafina listened as he told her of the rumors that had swept the town.	并列句
Amid the fog of rumor, a few facts had begun to emerge clearly.	陈述句
'They say that the Magisterium is assembling the greatest army ever known, and this is an advance party.	并列句
And there are unpleasant rumors about some of the soldiers, Serafina Pekkala.	并列句
I've heard about Bolvangar, and what they were doing there—cutting children's daemons away, the most evil work I've ever heard of.	并列句
Well, it seems there is a regiment of warriors who have been treated in the same way.	陈述句
They fear nothing, because they're mindless.	陈述句
" "What of the other witch clans?	疑问句
"What news do you have of them?	疑问句
All the witches are waiting, Serafina Pekkala, with fear in their hearts, for what will happen next.	陈述句
" "And what do you hear of the Church?	疑问句
What do you think he's intending, Dr.	陈述句
Lanselius?	疑问句
"He is a scholar," he said after a moment, "but scholarship is not his ruling passion.	陈述句
Nor is statesmanship.	陈述句
I don't think he wants to rule.	陈述句
I don't know, Serafina Pekkala.	陈述句
He is a man called Thorold, and he was imprisoned with Lord Asriel in the house on Svalbard.	并列句
" "Thank you.	陈述句
That's a good idea.	陈述句
I'll do it.	陈述句
And I'll go at once.	并列句
Serafina's journey to the north was made harder by the confusion in the world around her.	陈述句
All the Arctic peoples had been thrown into panic, and so had the animals, not only by the fog and the magnetic variations but by unseasonal crackings of ice and stirrings in the soil.	并列句
There she found Lord Asriel's servant, Thorold, fighting off a group of cliff-ghasts.	陈述句
She saw the movement before she came close enough to see what was happening.	陈述句
A single figure swathed in furs fired a rifle into the midst of them with a gaunt dog daemon snarling and snapping beside him whenever one of the filthy things flew low enough.	并列句
She didn't know the man, but a cliff-ghast was an enemy always.	并列句
With shrieks and gibberings, the gang—too loosely organized to be called a troop—circled, saw their new opponent, and fled in confusion.	并列句
A minute later the skies were bare again, and their dismayed yowk-yowk-yowk echoed distantly off the mountains before dwindling into silence.	并列句
Serafina flew down to the courtyard and alighted on the trampled, blood-sprinkled snow.	并列句
The man pushed back his hood, still holding his rifle warily, because a witch was an enemy sometimes, and she saw an elderly man, long-jawed and grizzled and steady-eyed.	并列句
"I hope we can talk.	陈述句
Look: I lay my bow down.	陈述句
" "Where is the child?	疑问句
" he said.	陈述句
"In another world.	陈述句
And I need to know what Lord Asriel is doing.	并列句
" The formalities exchanged, they went indoors.	陈述句
"She was always a willful child," he said when they were seated at the oaken table in the glow of a naphtha lamp.	陈述句
I was fond of her, mind—you couldn't help it.	陈述句
But what her place was in the wider scheme of things, I don't know.	并列句
" "What was Lord Asriel planning to do?	疑问句
" "You don't think he told me, do you, Serafina Pekkala?	疑问句
I clean his clothes and cook his meals and keep his house tidy.	并列句
" "Then tell me the thing or two you've learned by accident," she insisted.	并列句
He was shrewd, though, too, and he knew the attention was not really on him but on what he knew; and he was honest, so he did not draw out his telling for much longer than he needed.	并列句
"I can't tell you precisely what he's doing," he said, "because all the philosophical details are beyond my grasp.	陈述句
But I can tell you what drives his lordship, though he doesn't know I know.	并列句
I've seen this in a hundred little signs.	陈述句
Correct me if I'm wrong, but the witch people have different gods from ours, en't that right?	并列句
" "Yes, that's true.	陈述句
The God of the Church, the one they call the Authority?	疑问句
" "Yes, I do.	陈述句
" "Well, Lord Asriel has never found hisself at ease with the doctrines of the Church, so to speak.	并列句
I've seen a spasm of disgust cross his face when they talk of the sacraments, and atonement, and redemption, and suchlike.	并列句
It's death among our people, Serafina Pekkala, to challenge the Church, but Lord Asriel's been nursing a rebellion in his heart for as long as I've served him, that's one thing I do know.	并列句
" "A rebellion against the Church?	疑问句
" "Partly, aye.	陈述句
" "Why?	疑问句
Was the Church too strong?	疑问句
" "No," said the old servant, "that wouldn't stop my master.	陈述句
He's been my master and my study for nigh on forty years.	并列句
I can't follow him to the height of his thought any more than I can fly, but I can see where he's a-heading even if I can't go after him.	并列句
No, it's my belief he turned away from a rebellion against the Church not because the Church was too strong, but because it was too weak to be worth the fighting.	并列句
" "So.	陈述句
what is he doing?	疑问句
I think he's aiming a rebellion against the highest power of all.	陈述句
He's gone a-searching for the dwelling place of the Authority Himself, and he's a-going to destroy Him.	并列句
That's what I think.	陈述句
It shakes my heart to voice it, ma'am.	陈述句
I hardly dare think of it.	陈述句
But I can't put together any other story that makes sense of what he's doing.	并列句
" Serafina sat quiet for a few moments, absorbing what Thorold had said.	陈述句
Goes without saying.	陈述句
It'd be the most gigantic blasphemy, that's what they'd say.	陈述句
I've never spoke of it before and I shan't again; I'd be afraid to speak it aloud to you if you weren't a witch and beyond the power of the Church; but that makes sense, and nothing else does.	并列句
He's a-going to find the Authority and kill Him.	并列句
" "Is that possible?	疑问句
"Lord Asriel's life has been filled with things that were impossible.	陈述句
But on the face of it, Serafina Pekkala, yes, he's stark mad.	并列句
If angels couldn't do it, how can a man dare to think about it?	疑问句
What are angels?	疑问句
" "Beings of pure spirit, the Church says.	陈述句
The Church teaches that some of the angels rebelled before the world was created, and got flung out of heaven and into hell.	并列句
They failed, you see, that's the point.	陈述句
They couldn't do it.	陈述句
But his ambition is limitless.	并列句
He dares to do what men and women don't even dare to think.	并列句
Who else has ever done that?	疑问句
So with one part of me, Serafina Pekkala, I say he's mad, wicked, deranged.	并列句
Yet with another part I think, he's Lord Asriel, he's not like other men.	陈述句
Maybe.	陈述句
" "And what will you do, Thorold?	疑问句
" "I'll stay here and wait.	并列句
And now I might ask you the same question, ma'am.	并列句
" "I'm going to make sure the child is safe," she said.	陈述句
"It might be that I have to pass this way again, Thorold.	陈述句
I'm glad to know that you will still be here.	陈述句
She refused Thorold's offer of food, and said good-bye.	并列句
A minute or so later she joined her goose daemon again, and the daemon kept silence with her as they soared and wheeled above the foggy mountains.	并列句
She was deeply troubled, and there was no need to explain: every strand of moss, every icy puddle, every midge in her homeland thrilled against her nerves and called her back.	并列句
These were human affairs she was inquiring into, this was a human matter; Lord Asriel's god was not hers.	陈述句
Was she becoming human?	疑问句
Was she losing her witchhood?	疑问句
If she were, she could not do it alone.	陈述句
"Home now," she said.	陈述句
"We must talk to our sisters, Kaisa.	陈述句
These events are too big for us alone.	陈述句
" And they sped through the roiling banks of fog toward Lake Enara and home.	并列句
* * * In the forested caves beside the lake they found the others of their clan, and Lee Scoresby, too.	并列句
"Ma'am, I'm very glad to see you," he said.	陈述句
" "None, Mr.	陈述句
Scoresby.	陈述句
" The Texan blinked with surprise, for no man had ever been known to join a witch council.	陈述句
"I may have a suggestion or two of my own.	并列句
" All through that day the witches came, like flakes of black snow on the wings of a storm, filling the skies with the darting flutter of their silk and the swish of air through the needles of their cloud-pine branches.	并列句
Men who hunted in the dripping forests or fished among melting ice floes heard the skywide whisper through the fog, and if the sky was clear, they would look up to see the witches flying, like scraps of darkness drifting on a secret tide.	并列句
By evening the pines around the lake were lit from below by a hundred fires, and the greatest fire of all was built in front of the gathering cave.	并列句
There, once they had eaten, the witches assembled.	陈述句
On her left sat Lee Scoresby, and on her right, a visitor: the queen of the Latvian witches, whose name was Ruta Skadi.	并列句
She had arrived only an hour before, to Serafina's surprise.	陈述句
Serafina had thought Mrs.	陈述句
Coulter beautiful, for a short-life; but Ruta Skadi was as lovely as Mrs.	并列句
She had trafficked with spirits, and it snowed.	并列句
She was vivid and passionate, with large black eyes; it was said that Lord Asriel himself had been her lover.	并列句
She wore heavy gold earrings and a crown on her black curly hair ringed with the fangs of snow tigers.	并列句
Serafina's daemon, Kaisa, had learned from Ruta Skadi's daemon that she had killed the tigers herself in order to punish the Tartar tribe who worshiped them, because the tribesmen had failed to do her honor when she had visited their territory.	陈述句
she asked.	陈述句
Serafina was not sure why she had come, but made the queen welcome, and etiquette demanded that Ruta Skadi should sit on Serafina's right.	并列句
When they were all assembled, Serafina began to speak.	陈述句
You know why we have come together: we must decide what to do about these new events.	陈述句
The universe is broken wide, and Lord Asriel has opened the way from this world to another.	并列句
Should we concern ourselves with it, or live our lives as we have done until now, looking after our own affairs?	并列句
Then there is the matter of the child Lyra Belacqua, now called Lyra Silvertongue by King lorek Byrnison.	陈述句
Lanselius: she is the child we have always expected, and now she has vanished.	并列句
" Ruta Skadi stood.	陈述句
Her white arms gleamed in the firelight; her eyes glittered so brightly that even the farthest witch could see the play of expression on her vivid face.	并列句
For there is a war coming.	陈述句
I don't know who will join with us, but I know whom we must fight.	并列句
It is the Magisterium, the Church.	陈述句
For all its history— and that's not long by our lives, but it's many, many of theirs—it's tried to suppress and control every natural impulse.	并列句
Some of you have seen what they did at Bolvangar.	陈述句
Sisters, you know only the north; I have traveled in the south lands.	陈述句
There are churches there, believe me, that cut their children too, as the people of Bolvangar did—not in the same way, but just as horribly.	并列句
That is what the Church does, and every church is the same: control, destroy, obliterate every good feeling.	并列句
So if a war comes, and the Church is on one side of it, we must be on the other, no matter what strange allies we find ourselves bound to.	并列句
"What I propose is that our clans join together and go north to explore this new world, and see what we can discover there.	并列句
If the child is not to be found in our world, it's because she will have gone after Lord Asriel already.	陈述句
He was my lover once, and I would willingly join forces with him, because he hates the Church and all it does.	并列句
"That is what I have to say.	陈述句
" Ruta Skadi spoke passionately, and Serafina admired her power and her beauty.	并列句
When the Latvian queen sat down, Serafina turned to Lee Scoresby.	陈述句
"Would you tell us your thoughts, sir?	疑问句
" The Texan got to his feet, whiplash-lean and courteous.	并列句
"Ma'am," he said, "I have to thank you all first for the kindness you've shown to me, and the help you extended to an aeronaut battered by winds that came from another world.	并列句
I won't trespass long on your patience.	陈述句
"When I was traveling north to Bolvangar with the gyptians, the child Lyra told me about something that happened in the college she used to live in, back in Oxford.	陈述句
Lord Asriel had shown the other scholars the severed head of a man called Stanislaus Grumman, and that kinda persuaded them to give him some money to come north and find out what had happened.	并列句
"Now, the child was so sure of what she'd seen that I didn't like to question her too much.	并列句
But what she said made a kind of memory come to my mind, except that I couldn't reach it clearly.	并列句
Grumman.	陈述句
And it was only on the flight here from Svalbard that I remembered what it was.	并列句
It was an old hunter from Tungusk who told me.	陈述句
I don't want to belittle the magic that you witches can command, but this thing, whatever it is, has a kind of power that outclasses anything I've ever heard of.	并列句
"And I thought I might postpone my retirement to Texas because of my concern for that child, and search for Dr.	并列句
Grumman.	陈述句
You see, I don't think he's dead.	陈述句
I think Lord Asriel was fooling those scholars.	陈述句
I cain't see the future, but I can see the present clear enough.	并列句
But that's the task I'm going to take on, ma'am," he concluded, turning back to Serafina Pekkala.	并列句
"I'm going to seek out Stanislaus Grumman and find out what he knows, and if I can find that object he knows of, I'll take it to Lyra.	并列句
" Serafina said, "Have you been married, Mr.	陈述句
Have you any children?	疑问句
" "No, ma'am, I have no child, though I would have liked to be a father.	陈述句
But I understand your question, and you're right: that little girl has had bad luck with her true parents, and maybe I can f make it up to her.	并列句
Someone has to do it, and I'm willing.	并列句
" "Thank you, Mr.	陈述句
Scoresby," she said.	陈述句
And she took off her crown, and plucked from it one of the little scarlet flowers that, while she wore them, remained as fresh as if they had just been picked.	并列句
'Take this with you," she said, "and whenever you need my help, hold it in your hand and call to me.	并列句
I shall hear you, wherever you are.	陈述句
He took the little flower and tucked it carefully into his breast pocket.	并列句
"Now, sisters, who would like to speak?	疑问句
" The council proper began.	陈述句
The talk lasted all night, with many passionate voices for open war at once, and some others urging caution, and a few, though those were the wisest, suggesting a mission to all the other witch clans to urge them to join together for the first time.	并列句
As for what they should do immediately, Serafina picked out twenty of her finest fighters and ordered them to prepare to fly north with her, into the new world that Lord Asriel had opened, and search for Lyra.	并列句
"What of you, Queen Ruta Skadi?	疑问句
" Serafina said finally.	陈述句
"What are your plans?	疑问句
And it seems that the way he's gone is northward too.	并列句
" "You may, and welcome," said Serafina, who was glad to have her company.	并列句
So they agreed.	并列句
But soon after the council had broken up, an elderly witch came to Serafina Pekkala and said, "You had better listen to what Juta Kamainen has to say, Queen.	并列句
She's headstrong, but it might be important.	并列句
The witch's cheeks were plump and red; she had a vivid and passionate nature.	并列句
"Queen," said the young witch, unable to stay silent under Serafina's gaze, "I know the man Stanislaus Grumman.	陈述句
I used to love him.	陈述句
But I hate him now with such a fervor that if I see him, I shall kill him.	并列句
"Well," said Serafina, "if he is still alive, he'll have to stay alive until Mr.	陈述句
Forget him, Juta Kamainen.	陈述句
Love makes us suffer.	陈述句
But this task of ours is greater than revenge.	并列句
Remember that.	陈述句
And Serafina Pekkala and her twenty-one companions and Queen Ruta Skadi of Latvia prepared to fly into the new world, where no witch had ever flown before.	并列句
She'd had a horrible dream: she had been given the vacuum flask she'd seen her father, Lord Asriel, show to the Master and Scholars of Jordan College.	并列句
When that had really happened, Lyra had been hiding in the wardrobe, and she'd watched as Lord Asriel opened the flask to show the Scholars the severed head of Stanislaus Grumman, the lost explorer; but in her dream, Lyra had to open the flask herself, and she didn't want to.	并列句
In fact, she was terrified.	陈述句
Then she lifted the lid away, nearly choking with fear but knowing she had to—she had to do it.	并列句
And there was nothing inside.	并列句
The head had gone.	陈述句
There was nothing to be afraid of.	陈述句
But she awoke all the same, crying and sweating, in the hot little bedroom facing the harbor, with the moonlight streaming through the window, and lay in someone else's bed clutching someone else's pillow, with the ermine Pantalaimon nuzzling her and making soothing noises.	并列句
Oh, she was so frightened!	并列句
And how odd it was, that in real life she had been eager to see the head of Stanislaus Grumman, and had begged Lord Asriel to open the flask again and let her look, and yet in her dream she was so terrified.	并列句
When morning came, she asked the alethiometer what the dream meant, but all it said was, It was a dream about a head.	并列句
Instead, she went down to the kitchen and tried to make an omelette, and twenty minutes later she sat down at a table on the pavement and ate the blackened, gritty thing with great pride while the sparrow Pantalaimon pecked at the bits of shell.	并列句
She heard a sound behind her, and there was Will, heavy-eyed with sleep.	并列句
"I can make omelette," she said.	陈述句
"I'll make you some if you like.	陈述句
" He looked at her plate and said, "No, I'll have some cereal.	并列句
There's still some milk in the fridge that's all right.	陈述句
He carried the bowl outside and said, "If you don't come from this world, where's your world?	并列句
My father made this bridge, and.	陈述句
I followed him across.	陈述句
But he's gone somewhere else, I don't know where.	并列句
But while I was walking across there was so much fog, and I got lost, I think.	并列句
I walked around in the fog for days just eating berries and stuff I found.	并列句
Then one day the fog cleared, and we was up on that cliff back there—" She gestured behind her.	并列句
"And we saw the town here, and came down, but there was no one here.	并列句
We didn't know what to do next.	陈述句
" "You sure this isn't another part of your world?	疑问句
" '"Course.	陈述句
" Will remembered his own absolute certainty, on seeing the patch of grass through the window in the air, that it wasn't in his world, and he nodded.	并列句
"So there's three worlds at least that are joined on," he said.	陈述句
"This other daemon told me.	陈述句
No one can count how many worlds there are, all in the same space, but no one could get from one to another before my father made this bridge.	并列句
" "What about the window I found?	疑问句
" "I dunno about that.	陈述句
" She looked at him coldly.	陈述句
"I might tell you sometime," she said.	陈述句
"All right.	陈述句
But how are you going to look for it?	并列句
" "I'm going to find a Scholar who knows about it.	陈述句
" "What, any scholar?	疑问句
" "No.	陈述句
An experimental theologian," she said.	陈述句
"In my Oxford, they were the ones who knew about it.	陈述句
Stands to reason it'll be the same in your Oxford.	陈述句
I'll go to Jordan College first, because Jordan had the best ones.	陈述句
" "I never heard of experimental theology," he said.	陈述句
"They know all about elementary particles and fundamental forces," she explained.	并列句
Atomcraft.	陈述句
" "What-magnetism?	疑问句
" "Anbaromagnetism.	陈述句
Like anbaric.	陈述句
"They're anbaric.	陈述句
" "Electric.	陈述句
That's a kind of stone, a jewel, made out of gum from bees.	陈述句
There's bisects in it, sometimes.	陈述句
Will remembered that moment for a long time afterward.	陈述句
"Well, electromagnetism," he went on, looking away.	陈述句
" "Ah," she said warily.	陈述句
"I'll find "em.	陈述句
" They sat hi the wide clear morning, with the sun glittering placidly on the harbor, and each of them might have spoken next, because both of them were burning with questions; but then they heard a voice from farther along the harbor front, toward the casino gardens.	并列句
Both of them looked there, startled.	陈述句
It was a child's voice, but there was no one in sight.	并列句
I never seen anyone.	陈述句
There's no one here.	陈述句
I looked almost everywhere.	陈述句
" But there was.	并列句
They were about a hundred yards away when they saw Will and Lyra at the cafe table.	并列句
Pantalaimon changed from a goldfinch to a mouse and ran up Lyra's arm to the pocket of her shirt.	并列句
He'd seen that these new children were like Will: neither of them had a dsmon visible.	陈述句
The two children wandered up and sat at a table nearby.	并列句
"You from Ci'gazze?	疑问句
Will shook his head.	陈述句
" The girl nodded.	陈述句
This was a reasonable reply.	陈述句
"What's happening?	疑问句
" said Will.	陈述句
" The girl's eyes narrowed.	陈述句
"Didn't the Specters come to your city?	疑问句
"No," Will said.	陈述句
"We just got here.	陈述句
We don't know about Specters.	陈述句
What is this city called?	疑问句
" "Ci'gazze," the girl said suspiciously.	陈述句
" "Cittagazze," Lyra repeated.	陈述句
"Ci'gazze.	陈述句
"What's your name?	疑问句
What's yours?	疑问句
My brother is Paolo.	陈述句
" "Where've you come from?	疑问句
There was a big fog and storm and everyone was frightened, so we all run up in the hills.	并列句
Then when the fog cleared, the grownups could see with telescopes that the city was full of Specters, so they couldn't come back.	并列句
But the kids, we ain' afraid of Specters, all right.	并列句
There's more kids coming down.	陈述句
They be here later, but we're first.	并列句
"Our big brother," she said.	陈述句
"He ain' with us.	陈述句
He's just hiding.	陈述句
"What did you say about the city?	疑问句
" said Will.	陈述句
" "Yeah, Ci'gazze, Sant'Elia, all cities.	陈述句
" "Winchester," said Will.	陈述句
" "No.	陈述句
I can't see any here, either.	陈述句
" '"Course not!	陈述句
" she crowed.	陈述句
"You ain' grown up!	陈述句
When we grow up, we see Specters.	陈述句
" "I ain' afraid of Specters, all right," the little boy said, thrusting forward his grubby chin.	陈述句
"Kill the buggers.	陈述句
" "En't the grownups going to come back at all?	疑问句
" said Lyra.	陈述句
"When the Specters go somewhere else.	陈述句
We like it when the Specters come, 'cause we can run about in the city, do what we like, all right.	陈述句
" "But what do the grownups think the Specters will do to them?	疑问句
"Well, when a Specter catch a grownup, that's bad to see.	陈述句
They eat the life out of them there and then, all right.	并列句
I don't want to be grown up, for sure.	陈述句
At first they know it's happening, and they're afraid; they cry and cry.	并列句
They try and look away and pretend it ain' happening, but it is.	并列句
It's too late.	陈述句
And no one ain' gonna go near them, they on they own.	并列句
Then they get pale and they stop moving.	并列句
They still alive, but it's like they been eaten from inside.	并列句
You look in they eyes, you see the back of they heads.	陈述句
Ain' nothing there.	陈述句
" The girl turned to her brother and wiped his nose on the sleeve of his shirt.	并列句
"Me and Paolo's going to look for ice creams," she said.	并列句
"You want to come and find some?	并列句
" "No," said Will, "we got something else to do.	陈述句
" "Good-bye," said Lyra.	陈述句
He said to Will, "They don't know about this window you found.	陈述句
" It was the first time Will had heard him speak, and he was almost more startled by that than by anything else he'd seen so far.	并列句
Lyra laughed at his astonishment.	陈述句
"He—but he spoke!	陈述句
Do all daemons talk?	疑问句
" Will said.	陈述句
'"Course they do!	陈述句
" said Lyra.	陈述句
"Did you think he was just a pet?	疑问句
” Will rubbed his hair and blinked.	并列句
"No," he said, addressing Pantalaimon.	陈述句
"You're right, I think.	陈述句
" "So we better be careful how we go through," Pantalaimon said.	陈述句
Then it was no more strange than talking into a telephone, because he was really talking to Lyra.	陈述句
But the mouse was separate; there was something of Lyra in his expression, but something else too.	并列句
It was too hard to work out, when there were so many strange things happening at once.	并列句
Will tried to bring his thoughts together.	陈述句
" "Why?	疑问句
" she said stubbornly.	陈述句
"Because you can't go and talk to people in my world looking like that; they wouldn't let you near them.	并列句
You got to look as if you fit in.	陈述句
You got to go about camouflaged.	陈述句
I know, see.	陈述句
I've been doing it for years.	陈述句
You better listen to me or you'll get caught, and if they find out where you come from, and the window, and everything.	并列句
See, I'm.	陈述句
This is the best hiding place I could dream of, and I don't want it found out.	并列句
So I don't want you giving it away by looking out of place or as if you don't belong.	并列句
" She swallowed.	陈述句
The alethiometer never lied: this boy was a murderer, and if he'd killed before, he could kill her, too.	并列句
"Good," he said.	陈述句
"Now, while we're here, we'll pretend to these other kids that we just come from somewhere in their world.	陈述句
It's good there aren't any grownups about.	陈述句
We can just come and go and no one'11 notice.	并列句
But in my world, you got to do as I say.	并列句
And the first thing is you better wash yourself.	并列句
You need to look clean, or you'll stand out.	并列句
We got to be camouflaged everywhere we go.	陈述句
We got to look as if we belong there so naturally that people don't even notice us.	并列句
Then we'll go and find some different clothes.	并列句
"I never washed my hair.	陈述句
The housekeeper done it at Jordan, and then I never needed to after that.	并列句
" "Well, you'll just have to work it out," he said.	陈述句
In my world people are clean.	陈述句
Part of him wanted to wander about this sunny silent morning exploring the city, and another part trembled with anxiety for his mother, and another part was still numb with shock at the death he'd caused.	并列句
And overhanging them all was the task he had to do.	并列句
But it was good to keep busy, so while he waited for Lyra, he cleaned the working surfaces in the kitchen, and washed the floor, and emptied the rubbish into the bin he found in the alley outside.	并列句
As soon as he'd shown Lyra how to get through the window into his Oxford, he'd come back and look at what was inside; but in the meanwhile, he tucked it under the mattress of the bed he'd slept in.	并列句
In this world, it was safe.	陈述句
When Lyra came down, clean and wet, they left to look for some clothes for her.	并列句
They found a department store, shabby like everywhere else, with clothes in styles that looked a little old-fashioned to Will's eye, but they found Lyra a tartan skirt and a green sleeveless blouse with a pocket for Pantalaimon.	并列句
She refused to wear jeans, refused even to believe Will when he told her that most girls did.	陈述句
"They're trousers," she said.	陈述句
"I'm a girl.	陈述句
Don't be stupid.	陈述句
" He shrugged; the tartan skirt looked unremarkable, which was the main thing.	陈述句
Before they left, Will dropped some coins in the till behind the counter.	陈述句
"What you doing?	疑问句
" she said.	陈述句
"Paying.	陈述句
I bet those other kids en't paying for a thing.	陈述句
" "They might not, but I do.	并列句
" "If you start behaving like a grownup, the Specters'11 get you," she said, but she didn't know whether she could tease him yet or whether she should be afraid of him.	并列句
Holes in the road had not been repaired; windows were broken; plaster was peeling.	陈述句
And yet there had once been a beauty and grandeur about this place.	并列句
Through carved archways they could see spacious courtyards filled with greenery, and there were great buildings that looked like palaces, for all that the steps were cracked and the doorframes loose from the walls.	并列句
It was the oldest building they'd seen: a simple battlemented tower four stories high.	陈述句
Something about its stillness in the bright sun was intriguing, and both Will and Lyra felt drawn to the half-open door at the top of the broad steps; but they didn't speak of it, and they went on, a bit reluctantly.	并列句
When they reached the broad boulevard with the palm trees, he told her to look for a little cafe on a corner, with green-painted metal tables on the pavement outside.	陈述句
They found it within a minute.	陈述句
"Is it in here?	疑问句
" she said.	陈述句
"No.	陈述句
Make sure there's no other kids around.	陈述句
" But they were alone.	并列句
Will took her to the grassy median under the palm trees, and looked around to get his bearings.	并列句
"When I came through, I could just about see that big hill behind the white house up there, and looking this way there was the cafe there, and.	并列句
I can't see anything.	陈述句
" "You won't mistake it.	陈述句
Had it vanished?	疑问句
Had it closed?	疑问句
He couldn't see it anywhere.	陈述句
And then suddenly he had it.	并列句
He moved back and forth, watching the edge.	并列句
"Here it is," he said when he was sure.	陈述句
"Ah!	陈述句
I see it!	陈述句
Her dcemon, unable to remain inside her pocket, had come out to be a wasp, and he buzzed up to the hole and back several times, while she rubbed her still slightly wet hair into spikes.	并列句
"Keep to one side," he told her.	陈述句
"If you stand in front of it people'd just see a pair of legs, and that would make 'em curious.	并列句
I don't want anyone noticing.	陈述句
" "Traffic.	陈述句
It's a part of the Oxford ring road.	陈述句
It's bound to be busy.	陈述句
It's the wrong time of day to go through, really; there's far too many people about.	陈述句
At least once we're through we can blend in easy.	陈述句
You go first.	陈述句
Just duck through quickly and move out of the way.	并列句
" She had a little blue rucksack that she'd been carrying since they left the cafe, and she unslung it and held it in her arms before crouching to look through.	并列句
"Ah!	陈述句
" She gasped.	陈述句
You sure you was in Oxford?	疑问句
" '"Course I'm sure.	陈述句
When you go through, you'll see a road right in front of you.	陈述句
Go to the left, and then a little farther along you take the road that goes down to the right.	并列句
That leads to the city center.	陈述句
Make sure you can see where this window is, and remember, all right?	并列句
It's the only way back.	陈述句
"I won't forget.	陈述句
" Taking her rucksack in her arms, she ducked through the window in the air and vanished.	并列句
Will crouched down to see where she went.	陈述句
And there she was, standing on the grass in his Oxford with Pan still as a wasp on her shoulder, and no one, as far as he could tell, had seen her appear.	并列句
There was a squeal of brakes, a shout, a bang.	陈述句
He flung himself down to look.	陈述句
A car had braked so hard that a van had struck it from behind, and knocked the car forward anyway, and there was Lyra, lying still— Will darted through after her.	并列句
No one saw him come; all eyes were on the car, the crumpled bumper, the van driver getting out, and on the little girl.	并列句
"I couldn't help it!	陈述句
"How's the kid?	疑问句
" The van driver was addressing Will, who was on his knees beside Lyra.	陈述句
Will looked up and around, but there was nothing for it; he was responsible.	并列句
On the grass next to him, Lyra was moving her head about, blinking hard.	陈述句
Will saw the wasp Pan-talaimon crawling dazedly up a grass stem beside her.	陈述句
"You all right?	疑问句
" Will said.	陈述句
"Move your legs and arms.	并列句
" "Stupid!	陈述句
" said the van driver.	陈述句
"Yeah," muttered Lyra.	陈述句
" "Move your feet and hands," Will insisted.	并列句
She did.	陈述句
There was nothing broken.	陈述句
"I'll look after her.	陈述句
She's fine.	陈述句
" "D'you know her?	疑问句
" said the truck driver.	陈述句
We just live around the corner.	陈述句
I'll take her home.	陈述句
" Lyra was sitting up now, and as she was obviously not badly hurt, the woman turned her attention back to the car.	并列句
The rest of the traffic was moving around the two stationary vehicles, and as they went past, the drivers looked curiously at the little scene, as people always do.	并列句
Will helped Lyra up; the sooner they moved away, the better.	陈述句
The woman and the van driver had realized that their argument ought to be handled by then-insurance companies and were exchanging addresses when the woman saw Will helping Lyra to limp away.	并列句
"Wait!	陈述句
" she called.	陈述句
I need your name and address.	并列句
" "I'm Mark Ransom," said Will, turning back, "and my sister's Lisa.	陈述句
" "Postcode?	疑问句
"Look, I want to get her home.	陈述句
" "Hop in the cab," said the van driver, "and I'll take you round.	陈述句
" "No, it's no trouble.	陈述句
It'd be quicker to walk, honest.	陈述句
" Lyra wasn't limping badly.	陈述句
They sat on a low garden wall.	陈述句
"You hurt?	疑问句
" Will said.	陈述句
And when I fell down, it shook me head," she said.	并列句
But she was more concerned about what was in the rucksack.	并列句
She felt inside it, brought out a heavy little bundle wrapped in black velvet, and unfolded it.	并列句
Will's eyes widened to see the alethiometer; the tiny symbols painted around the face, the golden hands, the questing needle, the heavy richness of the case took his breath away.	陈述句
" he said.	陈述句
"It's my alethiometer.	陈述句
It's a truth teller.	陈述句
A symbol reader.	陈述句
I hope it en't broken.	陈述句
" But it was unharmed.	并列句
She put it away and said, "I never seen so many carts and things.	并列句
I never guessed they was going so fast.	并列句
" "They don't have cars and vans in your Oxford?	并列句
" "Not so many.	并列句
I wasn't used to it.	陈述句
If you go and walk under a bus or get lost or something, they'll realize you're not from this world and start looking for the way through.	并列句
" He was far more angry than he needed to be.	陈述句
If you pretend you're my sister, that'll be a disguise for me, because the person they're looking for hasn't got a sister.	陈述句
" "All right," she said humbly.	陈述句
"And money.	陈述句
How are you going to get around and eat and so on?	并列句
" "I have got money," she said, and shook some gold coins out of her purse.	并列句
Will looked at them incredulously.	陈述句
"Is that gold?	疑问句
You're just not safe.	陈述句
I'll give you some money.	陈述句
Put those coins away and keep them out of sight.	并列句
And remember—you're my sister, and your name's Lisa Ransom.	并列句
" "Lizzie.	陈述句
I pretended to call myself Lizzie before.	陈述句
I can remember that.	陈述句
" "All right, Lizzie then.	陈述句
And I'm Mark.	并列句
Don't forget.	陈述句
" "All right," she said peaceably.	陈述句
He tried to put it out of his mind, and they set off together, crossing at the traffic lights and casting just one glance back at the window under the hornbeam trees.	并列句
They couldn't see it at all.	陈述句
"What are you doing?	疑问句
" said Lyra.	陈述句
Nothing seemed to be going wrong, so he withdrew a hundred pounds, and the machine gave it up without a hitch.	并列句
Lyra watched open-mouthed.	陈述句
"Use that later," he said.	陈述句
Let's find a bus into town.	陈述句
" Lyra let him deal with the bus.	陈述句
"It's all changed," she said.	陈述句
"Like.	陈述句
That en't the Corn-market?	疑问句
There's Balliol.	陈述句
And Bodley's Library, down there.	并列句
But where's Jordan?	并列句
It might have been delayed reaction from the accident, or present shock from finding an entirely different building in place of the Jordan College she knew as home.	并列句
"That en't right," she said.	陈述句
"This is a different Oxford.	陈述句
" "Well, we knew that," he said.	陈述句
He wasn't prepared for Lyra's wide-eyed helplessness.	陈述句
He couldn't know how much of her childhood had been spent running about streets almost identical with these, and how proud she'd been of belonging to Jordan College, whose Scholars were the cleverest, whose coffers the richest, whose beauty the most splendid of all.	并列句
And now it simply wasn't there, and she wasn't Lyra of Jordan anymore; she was a lost little girl in a strange world, belonging nowhere.	并列句
"Well," she said shakily.	陈述句
"If it en't here.	陈述句
" It was going to take longer than she'd thought, that was all.	陈述句
"Hello?	疑问句
Perkins.	陈述句
John Parry.	陈述句
I'm his son.	陈述句
" A minute went by, and then a man's voice said, "Hello.	并列句
This is Alan Perkins.	陈述句
Excuse me for calling.	陈述句
It's about my father, Mr.	陈述句
You send money every three months from my father to my mother's bank account.	陈述句
" "Well, I want to know where my father is, please.	陈述句
" "How old are you, William?	疑问句
" "Twelve.	陈述句
" "Yes.	陈述句
Has your mother.	陈述句
is she.	陈述句
" Will thought carefully.	陈述句
"But she's not in very good health.	陈述句
She can't tell me very much, and I want to know.	并列句
" "Yes, I see.	陈述句
Where are you now?	疑问句
Are you at home?	疑问句
" "No, I'm.	陈述句
I'm in Oxford.	陈述句
" "On your own?	疑问句
" "And your mother's not well, you say?	疑问句
" "No.	陈述句
" "Something like that.	陈述句
Look, can you tell me or not?	并列句
" "Well, I can tell you something, but not much and not right now, and I'd rather not do it over the phone.	并列句
I'm seeing a client in five minutes.	陈述句
Can you find your way to my office at about half past two?	疑问句
" "No," Will said.	陈述句
It would be too risky; the lawyer might have heard by then that he was wanted by the police.	陈述句
He thought quickly and went on.	并列句
"I've got to catch a bus to Nottingham, and I don't want to miss it.	并列句
But what I want to know, you can tell me over the phone, can't you?	并列句
All I want to know is, is my father alive, and if he is, where I can find him.	并列句
You can tell me that, can't you?	疑问句
" "It's not quite as simple as that.	陈述句
I can't really give out private information about a client unless I'm sure the client would want me to.	陈述句
And I'd need some proof of who you were, anyway.	并列句
" "Well.	陈述句
that wouldn't be confidential.	陈述句
Unfortunately, I can't tell you anyway, because I don't know.	陈述句
" "What?	疑问句
He left instructions to pay it until he told me to stop.	陈述句
1 haven't heard from him from that day to this.	陈述句
What it boils down to is that he's.	陈述句
well, I suppose he's vanished.	陈述句
" "Vanished?	疑问句
Just.	陈述句
lost?	疑问句
I'm going to Nottingham.	陈述句
" "Well, write to me, or get your mother to write, and I'll let you know what I can.	并列句
But you must understand, I can't do very much over the phone.	并列句
But can you tell me where he disappeared?	并列句
" "As I say, it's a matter of public record.	陈述句
You know he was an explorer?	疑问句
" "My mother's told me some things, yes.	陈述句
" "Well, he was leading an expedition, and it just disappeared.	并列句
About ten years ago.	陈述句
Maybe more.	陈述句
" "Where?	疑问句
" "The far north.	陈述句
Alaska, I think.	陈述句
You can look it up in the public library.	陈述句
The dial tone purred in his ear.	陈述句
He put the phone down and looked around.	并列句
What he wanted above all was to speak to his mother.	陈述句
He had to stop himself from dialing Mrs.	陈述句
Cooper's number, because if he heard his mother's voice, it would be very hard not to go back to her, and that would put both of them in danger.	并列句
But he could send her a postcard.	并列句
I HOPE EVERYTHING IS ALL RIGHT.	陈述句
It was midmorning, and he was in the main shopping street, where buses shouldered their way through crowds of pedestrians.	并列句
He began to realize how exposed he was; for it was a weekday, when a child of his age should have been in school.	陈述句
Where could he go?	疑问句
It didn't take him long to hide.	陈述句
Will could vanish easily enough, because he was good at it; he was even proud of his skill.	陈述句
Like Serafina Pekkala on the ship, he simply made himself part of the background.	陈述句
So now, knowing the sort of world he lived in, he went into a stationery shop and bought a ballpoint, a pad of paper, and a clipboard.	并列句
Schools often sent groups of pupils off to do a shopping survey, or something of the sort, and if he seemed to be on a project like that he wouldn't look as if he was at a loose end.	并列句
* * * Meanwhile, Lyra was looking for somewhere quiet to consult the alethiometer.	陈述句
What were those little white patches dotting every sidewalk?	疑问句
(In her own world, they had never heard of chewing gum.	陈述句
) What could those red and green lights mean at the corner of the road?	并列句
It was all much harder to read than the alethiometer.	陈述句
She'd seen him do it!	陈述句
Someone in this world with the same initials must have stood here idly and done exactly the same.	并列句
There might be a Simon Parslow in this world.	陈述句
Perhaps there was a Lyra.	陈述句
A chill ran down her back, and mouse-shaped Pantalaimon shivered in her pocket.	并列句
The other way in which this Oxford differed from hers was in the vast numbers of people swarming on every sidewalk, in and out of every building; people of every sort, women dressed like men, Africans, even a group of Tartars meekly following their leader, all neatly dressed and hung about with little black cases.	并列句
She glared at them fearfully at first, because they had no daemons, and in her world they would have been regarded as ghasts, or worse.	并列句
After wandering about for an hour, taking the measure of this mock-Oxford, she felt hungry and bought a bar of chocolate with her twenty-pound note.	并列句
The shopkeeper looked at her oddly, but he was from the Indies and didn't understand her accent, perhaps, although she asked very clearly.	并列句
With the change she bought an apple from the Covered Market, which was much more like the proper Oxford, and walked up toward the park.	并列句
There she found herself outside a grand building, a real Oxford-looking building that didn't exist in her world at all, though it wouldn't have looked out of place.	陈述句
She sat on the grass outside to eat, and regarded the building approvingly.	并列句
She discovered that it was a museum.	陈述句
The doors were open, and inside she found stuffed animals and fossil skeletons and cases of minerals, just like the Royal Geological Museum she'd visited with Mrs.	并列句
Coulter in her London.	陈述句
At the back of the great iron-and-glass hall was the entrance to another part of the museum, and because it was nearly deserted, she went through and looked around.	并列句
The alethiometer was still the most urgent thing on her mind, but in this second chamber she found herself surrounded by things she knew well: there were showcases filled with Arctic clothing, just like her own furs; with sledges and walrus-ivory carvings and seal-hunting harpoons; with a thousand and one jumbled trophies and relics and objects of magic and tools and weapons, and not only from the Arctic, as she saw, but from every part of this world Well, how strange.	并列句
Those caribou-skin furs were exactly the same as hers, but they'd tied the traces on that sledge completely wrong.	并列句
Look!	陈述句
What were these mysteries?	疑问句
Was there only one world after all, which spent its time dreaming of others?	疑问句
In an old glass case with a black-painted wooden frame there were a number of human skulls, and some of them had holes in them: some at the front, some on the side, some on the top.	并列句
The one in the center had two.	陈述句
This process, it said in spidery writing on a card, was called trepanning.	陈述句
The card also said that all the holes had been made during the owners' lifetimes, because the bone had healed and grown smooth around the edge.	并列句
One, however, hadn't: the hole had been made by a bronze arrowhead which was still in it, and its edges were sharp and broken, so you could tell it was different.	并列句
Lyra looked around quickly, saw no one nearby, and took out the alethiometer.	并列句
She focused her mind on the central skull and asked: What sort of person did this skull belong to, and why did they have those holes made in it?	并列句
As she stood concentrating in the dusty light that filtered through the glass roof and slanted down past the upper galleries, she didn't notice that she was being watched.	并列句
His gray hair was brushed neatly back from his smooth, tanned, barely wrinkled forehead.	陈述句
His eyes were large, dark and long-lashed and intense, and every minute or so his sharp, dark-pointed tongue peeped out at the corner of his lips and flicked across them moistly.	并列句
The snowy handkerchief in his breast pocket was scented with some heavy cologne like those hothouse plants so rich you can smell the decay at their roots.	并列句
And then the alethiometer, in the casual way it sometimes had of answering a question Lyra hadn't asked, added that there was a good deal more Dust around the trepanned skulls than around the one with the arrowhead.	并列句
Gazing into the next case was an elderly man in a pale suit, who smelled sweet.	陈述句
He reminded her of someone, but she couldn't think who.	并列句
"You're looking at the trepanned skulls?	疑问句
" he said.	陈述句
"What strange things people do to themselves.	陈述句
" "Mm," she said expressionlessly.	陈述句
"D'you know, people still do that?	疑问句
" "Yeah," she said.	陈述句
She still hadn't asked it the main question, and now this old man was having a conversation with her.	并列句
He seemed nice enough, and he certainly smelled nice.	并列句
He was closer now.	陈述句
His hand brushed hers as he leaned across the case.	陈述句
"Makes you wonder, doesn't it?	疑问句
No anesthetic, no disinfectant, probably done with stone tools.	陈述句
I don't think I've seen you here before.	陈述句
I come here quite a lot.	陈述句
" "Lizzie," she said comfortably.	陈述句
"Lizzie.	陈述句
Hello, Lizzie.	陈述句
" She wasn't sure how to answer.	陈述句
"No," she said.	陈述句
Well, you've chosen a wonderful place to look at.	陈述句
What are you specially interested in?	疑问句
" She was more puzzled by this man than by anyone she'd met for a long time.	陈述句
"What am I interested in?	疑问句
" she said.	陈述句
"Oh, all sorts of things, really.	陈述句
I shouldn't think anyone would want that done.	陈述句
It's horrible.	陈述句
I could take you to meet someone who's done it," he said, looking so friendly and helpful that she was very nearly tempted.	并列句
"I got to go," she said.	陈述句
"Thank you for offering, but I better not.	并列句
Anyway, I got to go now because I'm meeting someone.	陈述句
"Who I'm staying with.	陈述句
She felt he was watching her all the way out.	陈述句
This time she asked where she could find a Scholar who knew about Dust.	陈述句
The answer she got was simple: it directed her to a certain room in the tall square building behind her.	陈述句
In fact, the answer was so straightforward, and came so abruptly, that Lyra was sure the alethiometer had more to say: she was beginning to sense now that it had moods, like a person, and to know when it wanted to tell her more.	并列句
And it did now.	并列句
Your task is to help him find his father.	陈述句
Put your mind to that.	陈述句
She blinked.	陈述句
Will had appeared out of nowhere in order to help her; surely that was obvious.	陈述句
The idea that she had come all this way in order to help him took her breath away.	陈述句
But the alethiometer still hadn't finished.	并列句
The needle twitched again, and she read: Do not lie to the Scholar.	并列句
She folded the velvet around the alethiometer and thrust it into the rucksack out of sight.	并列句
Then she stood and looked around for the building where her Scholar would be found, and set off toward it, feeling awkward and defiant.	并列句
Will sat down to look through them.	陈述句
Sure enough, there were several references to John Parry, in connection with an archaeological expedition.	陈述句
Each month, he found, was on a separate roll of microfilm.	陈述句
The first story told of the departure of an expedition to the north of Alaska.	陈述句
It was accompanied by John Parry, late of the Royal Marines, a professional explorer.	陈述句
The second story was dated six weeks later.	陈述句
It said briefly that the expedition had reached the North American Arctic Survey Station at Noatak in Alaska.	陈述句
The third was dated two months after that.	陈述句
It said that there had been no reply to signals from the Survey Station, and that John Parry and his companions were presumed missing.	并列句
There was a brief series of articles following that one, describing the parties that had set out fruitlessly to look for them, the search flights over the Bering Sea, the reaction of the Institute of Archaeology, interviews with relatives.	陈述句
His heart thudded, because there was a picture of his own mother.	陈述句
Him.	陈述句
The reporter had written a standard tearful-wife-waiting-in-anguish-for-news story, which Will found disappointingly short of actual facts.	陈述句
There was a brief paragraph saying that John Parry had had a successful career in the Royal Marines and had left to specialize in organizing geographical and scientific expeditions, and that was all.	并列句
There must be some more information somewhere else; but where could he go next?	并列句
And if he took too long searching for it, he'd be traced.	并列句
He handed back the rolls of microfilm and asked the librarian, "Do you know the address of the Institute of Archaeology, please?	并列句
" "I could find out.	陈述句
What school are you from?	疑问句
Peter's," said Will.	陈述句
"That's not in Oxford, is it?	疑问句
" "No, it's in Hampshire.	陈述句
My class is doing a sort of residential field trip.	陈述句
Kind of environmental study research skills.	陈述句
" "Oh, I see.	陈述句
What was it you wanted?	疑问句
Archaeology?	疑问句
Here we are.	陈述句
" Will copied down the address and phone number, and since it was safe to admit he didn't know Oxford, asked where to find it.	并列句
He thanked the librarian and set off.	并列句
Inside the building Lyra found a wide desk at the foot of the stairs, with a porter behind it.	陈述句
"Where are you going?	疑问句
" he said.	陈述句
This was like home again.	陈述句
She felt Pan, in her pocket, enjoying it.	陈述句
"I got a message for someone on the second floor," she said.	陈述句
" "Dr.	陈述句
"Dr.	陈述句
Lister's on the third floor.	陈述句
If you've got something for him, you can leave it here and I'll let him know.	并列句
" "Yeah, but this is something he needs right now.	并列句
The alethiometer didn't tell Lyra people's names, of course.	陈述句
She had read the name Dr.	陈述句
Lister off a pigeonhole on the wall behind him, because if you pretend you know someone, they're more likely to let you in.	陈述句
These rooms, the walls of this corridor, were all flat and bare and plain in a way Lyra thought belonged to poverty, not to the scholarship and splendor of Oxford; and yet the brick walls were smoothly painted, and the doors were of heavy wood and the banisters were of polished steel, so they were costly.	并列句
The sign on it said DARK MATTER RESEARCH UNIT, and under it someone had scribbled R.	并列句
P.	陈述句
Another hand had added in pencil DIRECTOR: LAZARUS.	陈述句
She knocked, and a woman's voice said, "Come in.	并列句
" It was a small room, crowded with tottering piles of papers and books, and the whiteboards on the walls were covered in figures and equations.	并列句
Through an open doorway Lyra could see another room, where some kind of complicated anbaric machinery stood in silence.	陈述句
For her part, Lyra was a little surprised to find that the Scholar she sought was female, but the alethiometer hadn't said a man, and this was a strange world, after all.	并列句
"Who are you?	疑问句
"Lyra Silvertongue," she answered.	陈述句
"What's your name?	疑问句
She was in her late thirties, Lyra supposed, perhaps a little older than Mrs.	陈述句
Coulter, with short black hair and red cheeks.	并列句
She wore a white coat open over a green shirt and those blue canvas trousers so many people wore in this world.	并列句
At Lyra's question the woman ran a hand through her hair and said, "Well, you're the second unexpected thing that's happened today.	并列句
I'm Dr.	陈述句
Mary Malone.	陈述句
" "I want you to tell me about Dust," said Lyra, having looked around to make sure they were alone.	陈述句
"I know you know about it.	陈述句
You got to tell me.	陈述句
" "Dust?	疑问句
What are you talking about?	疑问句
And something I only found out today—I was in that museum down the road and there was some old skulls with holes in their heads, like the Tartars make, and there was a lot more Dust around them than around this other one that hadn't got that sort of hole in it.	并列句
When's the Bronze Age?	疑问句
" The woman was looking at her wide-eyed.	陈述句
Goodness, I don't know; about five thousand years ago," she said.	陈述句
"Ah, well, they got it wrong then, when they wrote that label.	陈述句
That skull with the two holes in it is thirty-three thousand years old.	陈述句
" She stopped then, because Dr.	陈述句
Malone looked as if she was about to faint.	陈述句
The high color left her cheeks completely; she put one hand to her breast while the other clutched the arm of her chair, and her jaw dropped.	并列句
Lyra stood, stubborn and puzzled, waiting for her to recover.	并列句
" the woman said at last.	陈述句
"Lyra Silver—" "No, where d'you come from?	疑问句
What are you?	疑问句
How do you know things like this?	疑问句
" Wearily Lyra sighed; she had forgotten how roundabout Scholars could be.	陈述句
"I come from another world," she began.	陈述句
"And in that world there's an Oxford like this, only different, and that's where I come from.	并列句
You come from where?	疑问句
"I see.	陈述句
Well, I think I see.	陈述句
" "And I got to find out about Dust," Lyra explained.	陈述句
"Because the Church people in my world, right, they're frightened of Dust because they think it's original sin.	陈述句
No," she said passionately, and stamped her foot.	并列句
"That's not what I meant to say.	陈述句
I'm doing it all wrong.	陈述句
" She broke off and rubbed her eyes, which were red with tiredness.	并列句
"Why am I listening to you?	疑问句
"I must be crazy.	陈述句
The fact is, this is the only place in the world where you'd get the answer you want, and they're about to close us down.	并列句
What you're talking about, your Dust, sounds like something we've been investigating for a while now, and what you say about the skulls in the museum gave me a turn, because.	并列句
oh, no, this is just too much.	陈述句
I'm too tired.	陈述句
I want to listen to you, believe me, but not now, please.	并列句
Did I say they were going to close us down?	疑问句
I've got a week to put together a proposal to the funding committee, but we haven't got a hope in hell.	并列句
" Lyra said.	陈述句
"Oh.	陈述句
Yes.	陈述句
I don't suppose it was that unexpected, anyway.	陈述句
" She yawned again.	陈述句
You'll have some too?	疑问句
" She filled an electric kettle, and while she spooned instant coffee into two mugs Lyra stared at the Chinese pattern on the back of the door.	并列句
"What's that?	疑问句
"It's Chinese.	陈述句
D'you know what that is?	疑问句
Do they have that in your world?	疑问句
I don't know everything about my world.	陈述句
"Yes, maybe they have.	陈述句
" said Lyra.	陈述句
"That's what it says on the sign, isn't it?	疑问句
" Dr.	陈述句
She said, "Dark matter is what my research team is looking for.	陈述句
There's more stuff out there in the universe than we can see, that's the point.	陈述句
We can see the stars and the galaxies and the things that shine, but for it all to hang together and not fly apart, there needs to be a lot more of it—to make gravity work, you see.	并列句
But no one can detect it.	并列句
So there are lots of different research projects trying to find out what it is, and this is one of them.	并列句
At last the woman was talking seriously.	陈述句
"And what do you think it is?	疑问句
But the particles are very hard to detect.	并列句
Where do you go to school?	疑问句
" Lyra felt Pantalaimon nip her hand, warning her not to get cross.	陈述句
It was all very well, the alethiometer telling her to be truthful, but she knew what would happen if she told the whole truth.	并列句
She had to tread carefully and just avoid direct lies.	并列句
"Yes," she said, "I know a little bit.	陈述句
" "Well, we're trying to detect this almost-undetectable thing among the noise of all the other particles crashing about.	陈述句
Normally they put detectors very deep underground, but what we've done instead is to set up an electromagnetic field around the detector that shuts out the things we don't want and lets through the ones we do.	并列句
Then we amplify the signal and put it through a computer.	并列句
" She handed across a mug of coffee.	陈述句
There was no milk and no sugar, but she did find a couple of ginger biscuits in a drawer, and Lyra took one hungrily.	并列句
"And we found a particle that fits," Dr.	陈述句
Malone went on.	陈述句
"We think it fits.	陈述句
But it's so strange.	并列句
Why am I telling you this?	疑问句
I shouldn't.	陈述句
It's not published, it's not refereed, it's not even written down.	陈述句
I'm a little crazy this afternoon.	陈述句
"Well.	陈述句
" she went on, and she yawned for so long that Lyra thought she'd never stop, "our particles are strange little devils, make no mistake.	并列句
We call them shadow particles, Shadows.	陈述句
You know what nearly knocked me off my chair just now?	疑问句
When you mentioned the skulls in the museum.	陈述句
Because one of our team, you see, is a bit of an amateur archaeologist.	陈述句
But we couldn't ignore it, because it fitted in with the craziest thing of all about these Shadows.	并列句
You know what?	疑问句
Shadows are particles of consciousness.	陈述句
No wonder we can't get our grant renewed.	陈述句
" She sipped her coffee.	陈述句
Lyra was drinking in every word like a thirsty flower.	陈述句
"Yes," Dr.	陈述句
Malone went on, "they know we're here.	陈述句
They answer back.	陈述句
And here goes the crazy part: you can't see them unless you expect to.	并列句
You have to be confident and relaxed at the same time.	并列句
You have to be capable— Where's that quotation.	陈述句
I found it the other day.	陈述句
So you get yourself in the right state of mind, and then you look at the Cave—" "The cave?	并列句
" said Lyra.	陈述句
"Oh, sorry.	陈述句
We call it the Cave.	陈述句
Shadows on the walls of the Cave, you see, from Plato.	陈述句
That's our archaeologist again.	陈述句
He's an all-around intellectual.	陈述句
But he's gone off to Geneva for a job interview, and I don't suppose for a moment he'll be back.	并列句
Where was I?	疑问句
Oh, the Cave, that's right.	陈述句
Once you're linked up to it, if you think, the Shadows respond.	陈述句
There's no doubt about it.	陈述句
The Shadows flock to your thinking like birds.	陈述句
" "What about the skulls?	疑问句
" "I was coming to that.	陈述句
Oliver Payne—him, my colleague— was fooling about one day testing things with the Cave.	陈述句
And it was so odd.	并列句
It didn't make any sense in the way a physicist would expect.	陈述句
He got a piece of ivory, just a lump, and there were no Shadows with that.	并列句
It didn't react.	陈述句
But a carved ivory chess piece did.	并列句
And a carved wooden statuette had more.	并列句
Little minute lumps of scarcely anything.	陈述句
"And then Oliver—Dr.	陈述句
Payne—got some fossil skulls from a friend at the museum and tested them to see how far back in time the effect went.	并列句
There was a cutoff point about thirty, forty thousand years ago.	陈述句
Before that, no Shadows.	陈述句
After that, plenty.	陈述句
And that's about the time, apparently, that modern human beings first appeared.	并列句
" "It's Dust," said Lyra authoritatively.	陈述句
" "But, you see, you can't say this sort of thing in a funding application if you want to be taken seriously.	陈述句
It does not make sense.	陈述句
It cannot exist.	陈述句
It's impossible, and if it isn't impossible, it's irrelevant, and if it isn't either of those things, it's embarrassing.	并列句
" "I want to see the Cave," said Lyra.	陈述句
She stood up.	陈述句
Dr.	陈述句
"Well, I can't see why not," she said.	陈述句
Come along through.	陈述句
It was larger, and crowded with anbaric equipment.	并列句
"This is it.	陈述句
Over there," she said, pointing to a screen that was glowing an empty gray.	陈述句
To see the Shadows, you have to be linked up to some electrodes.	陈述句
Like for measuring brain waves.	陈述句
" "I want to try it," said Lyra.	陈述句
"You won't see anything.	陈述句
Anyway, I'm tired.	陈述句
" "Please!	陈述句
" "Do you, now?	疑问句
No, for heaven's sake.	陈述句
This is an expensive, difficult scientific experiment.	陈述句
Shouldn't you be at school?	疑问句
Lyra was trembling.	陈述句
Tell the truth, she thought.	陈述句
"I found my way in with this," she said, and took out the alethiometer.	并列句
"What in the world is that?	疑问句
A compass?	疑问句
" Lyra let her take it.	陈述句
Malone's eyes widened as she felt the weight "Dear Lord, it's made of gold.	陈述句
Where on earth—" "I think it does what your Cave does.	陈述句
If I can answer a question truly," said Lyra desperately, "something you know the answer to and I don't, can I try your Cave then?	并列句
What is this thing?	疑问句
" "Please!	陈述句
Just ask me a question!	陈述句
" Dr.	陈述句
Malone shrugged.	陈述句
"Oh, all right," she said.	陈述句
" Eagerly Lyra took the alethiometer from her and turned the winding wheels.	并列句
She could feel her mind reaching for the right pictures even before the hands were pointing at them, and she sensed the longer needle twitching to respond.	并列句
Then she blinked and sighed and came out of her temporary trance.	并列句
Nuns are supposed to stay in their convents forever.	陈述句
" Dr.	陈述句
Lyra said, "That's true, en't it?	疑问句
And you found out from that.	并列句
" "From my alethiometer.	陈述句
It works by Dust, I think.	陈述句
I came all this way to find out more about Dust, and it told me to come to you.	并列句
So I reckon your dark matter must be the same thing.	并列句
Now can I try your Cave?	疑问句
" Dr.	陈述句
Malone shook her head, but not to say no, just out of helplessness.	并列句
She spread her hands.	陈述句
"Very well," she said.	陈述句
"I think I'm dreaming.	陈述句
I might as well carry on.	陈述句
" She swung around in her chair and pressed several switches, bringing an electrical hum and the sound of a computer's cooling fan into the air; and at the sound of them, Lyra gave a little muffled gasp.	并列句
It was because the sound in that room was the same sound she'd heard in that dreadful glittering chamber at Bolvangar, where the silver guillotine had nearly parted her and Pantalaimon.	并列句
She felt him quiver in her pocket, and gently squeezed him for reassurance.	并列句
But Dr.	并列句
As she did, the screen changed color, and some small letters and figures appeared on it.	并列句
"Now you sit down," she said, and pulled out a chair for Lyra.	并列句
It washes off easily.	陈述句
Hold still, now.	陈述句
" Dr.	陈述句
Lyra sat determinedly still, but she was breathing quickly, and her heart was beating hard.	并列句
Malone.	陈述句
Off you go.	陈述句
" Lyra looked.	陈述句
The glass was dark and blank.	并列句
She saw her own reflection dimly, but that was all.	并列句
As an experiment she pretended that she was reading the alethiometer, and imagined herself asking: What does this woman know about Dust?	并列句
What questions is she asking?	疑问句
Astonished, she came out of her concentration, and the flicker died.	并列句
She didn't notice the ripple of excitement that made Dr.	陈述句
Malone sit up: she frowned and sat forward and began to concentrate again.	并列句
This time the response came instantaneously.	陈述句
A stream of dancing lights, for all the world like the shimmering curtains of the aurora, blazed across the screen.	陈述句
They took up patterns that were held for a moment only to break apart and form again, in different shapes, or different colors; they looped and swayed, they sprayed apart, they burst into showers of radiance that suddenly swerved this way or that like a flock of birds changing direction in the sky.	并列句
And as Lyra watched, she felt the same sense, as of trembling on the brink of understanding, that she remembered from the time when she was beginning to read the alethiometer.	并列句
She asked another question: Is this Dust?	疑问句
Is it the same thing making these patterns and moving the needle of the alethiometer?	并列句
Then another thought occurred to her, and she turned to speak to Dr.	并列句
" she said.	陈述句
Dr.	陈述句
"What is it?	疑问句
" Lyra said again.	陈述句
"Oh—you've just put on the best display I've ever seen, that's all," said Dr.	陈述句
Malone.	陈述句
"What were you doing?	疑问句
" "I was thinking you could get it clearer than this," Lyra said.	陈述句
"Clearer?	疑问句
That's the clearest it's ever been!	陈述句
" "Well," said Dr.	陈述句
That's revolutionary enough; it's our consciousness that they respond to, you see.	陈述句
They could do other things, those Shadows.	陈述句
Look.	陈述句
" And she turned back and focused her mind again, but this time she pretended to herself that the screen was the alethiometer, with all thirty-six symbols laid out around the edge.	并列句
She knew them so well now that her fingers automatically twisted in her lap as she moved the imaginary hands to point at the candle (for understanding), the alpha and omega (for language), and the ant (for diligence), and framed the question: What would these people have to do in order to understand the language of the Shadows?	并列句
The screen responded as quickly as thought itself, and out of the welter of lines and flashes a series of pictures formed with perfect clarity: compasses, alpha and omega again, lightning, angel.	并列句
Each picture flashed up a different number of times, and then came a different three: camel, garden, moon.	并列句
Lyra saw their meanings clearly, and unfocused her mind to explain.	并列句
This time, when she turned around, she saw that Dr.	陈述句
"What it says," Lyra told her, "it's saying in my language, right—the language of pictures.	陈述句
Like the alethiometer.	陈述句
But what it says is that it could use ordinary language too, words, if you fixed it up like that.	并列句
You could fix this so it put words on the screen.	并列句
But you'd need a lot of careful figuring with numbers—that was die compasses, see.	并列句
And the lightning meant anbaric—I mean, electric power, more of that.	并列句
And the angel— that's all about messages.	并列句
There's things it wants to say.	陈述句
But when it went on to that second bit.	并列句
it meant Asia, almost the farthest east but not quite.	并列句
I dunno what country that would be—China, maybe.	陈述句
I think it meant that picture on the door, but I didn't understand it, really.	并列句
I thought when I first saw it there was something important about it, only I didn't know what.	陈述句
So there must be lots of ways of talking to Shadows.	并列句
Malone was breathless.	陈述句
"Yes, it's Chinese.	陈述句
A form of divination—fortune-telling, really.	陈述句
And, yes, they use sticks.	陈述句
" "Yeah," said Lyra.	陈述句
I thought there was only one.	陈述句
" Dr.	陈述句
Malone began.	陈述句
Lyra felt a flicker of a thought at the edge of her mind, and turned to the screen.	并列句
She had hardly begun to formulate a question when more pictures flashed up, succeeding each other so quickly that Dr.	并列句
Malone could hardly follow them; but Lyra knew what they were saying, and turned back to her.	并列句
I dunno what, but it wouldn't say that unless it was true.	并列句
So you probably ought to get it using words, so you can understand what it says.	并列句
Malone was silent.	陈述句
Then she said, "All right, where do you come from?	疑问句
She realized that Dr.	陈述句
Malone, who until now had acted out of exhaustion and despair, would never normally have shown her work to a strange child who turned up from nowhere, and that she was beginning to regret it.	并列句
But Lyra had to tell the truth.	并列句
"It's true.	陈述句
I came through to this one.	陈述句
I had to run away, because people in my world were chasing me, to kill me.	陈述句
from the same place.	陈述句
The Master of Jordan College gave it me.	陈述句
In my Oxford there's a Jordan College, but there en't one here.	并列句
And I found out how to read the alethiometer by myself.	并列句
I got a way of making my mind go blank, and I just see what the pictures mean straightaway.	并列句
Just like you said about.	陈述句
doubts and mysteries and that.	并列句
So.	陈述句
" Dr.	陈述句
Lyra picked up the alethiometer and folded its velvet cloth over it, like a mother protecting her child, before putting it back in her rucksack.	并列句
"So anyway," she said, "you could make this screen so it could talk to you in words, if you wanted.	并列句
Then you could talk to the Shadows like I talk to the alethiometer.	陈述句
But what I want to know is, why do the people in my world hate it?	并列句
Dust, I mean, Shadows.	陈述句
Dark matter.	陈述句
But I think what they do is evil.	并列句
I seen them do it.	陈述句
So what is it, Shadows?	并列句
Is it good or evil, or what?	并列句
Malone rubbed her face and turned her cheeks red again.	并列句
"Everything about this is embarrassing" she said.	陈述句
One of the reasons I became a scientist was not to have to think about that kind of thing.	陈述句
" "You got to think about it," said Lyra severely.	陈述句
"You can't investigate Shadows, Dust, whatever it is, without thinking about that kind of thing, good and evil and such.	并列句
You can't refuse.	陈述句
Why?	疑问句
" '"Cause you got tonight, then," said Lyra.	陈述句
"You could fix this engine thing to put words on the screen instead of pictures like I made.	陈述句
You could do that easy.	陈述句
Then you could show 'em, and they'd have to give you the money to carry on.	并列句
But you could find out for me.	并列句
Else I could probably do that Ching thing, with the sticks.	陈述句
But pictures are easier to work.	并列句
Dr.	陈述句
Malone gave her a tissue to wipe off the gel, and folded up the wires.	并列句
"So you're going?	疑问句
" "Are you going to make it do words?	疑问句
" Lyra said, gathering up her rucksack.	陈述句
"It's about as much use as completing the funding application, I daresay," said Dr.	陈述句
"No, listen.	陈述句
I want you to come back tomorrow.	陈述句
Can you do that?	疑问句
" Lyra narrowed her eyes.	陈述句
Was this a trap?	疑问句
"Well, all right," she said.	陈述句
"But remember, there's things I need to know.	陈述句
" "Yes.	陈述句
Of course.	陈述句
" "Yes," said Lyra.	陈述句
"If I say I will, I will.	陈述句
I could help you, I expect.	陈述句
The porter at the desk looked up briefly and then went back to his paper.	并列句
"I think he was a journalist.	陈述句
I'm not sure.	陈述句
" he said.	陈述句
It was the height of the cold war when the expedition vanished.	陈述句
Star Wars.	陈述句
The Americans and the Russians were building enormous radar installations all across the Arctic.	并列句
Anyway, what can I do for you?	疑问句
" "Well," said Will, trying to keep calm, "I was just trying to find out about that expedition, really.	陈述句
For a school project about prehistoric people.	陈述句
" "Well, you're not the only one, as you see.	陈述句
I looked it all up for the journalist.	陈述句
It was a preliminary survey, not a proper dig.	陈述句
You can't do a dig till you know whether it's worth spending time on it, so this group went out to look at a number of sites and make a report.	并列句
Half a dozen blokes altogether.	陈述句
Sometimes on an expedition like this you combine forces with people from another discipline—you know, geologists or whatever—to split the cost.	并列句
They look at their stuff and we look at ours.	并列句
In this case there was a physicist on the team.	陈述句
The aurora, you know, the northern lights.	陈述句
He had balloons with radio transmitters, apparently.	陈述句
"And there was another man with them.	陈述句
An ex-Marine, a sort of professional explorer.	陈述句
"But then they all vanished.	陈述句
They kept in radio contact with a local survey station, but one day the signal didn't come, and nothing more was heard.	并列句
There'd been a buzzard, but that was nothing unusual.	并列句
"And that's all I can tell you, I'm afraid.	陈述句
" "Yes," said Will.	陈述句
"Thank you.	陈述句
Umm.	陈述句
that journalist," he went on, stopping at the door.	陈述句
"You said he was interested in one of the men.	陈述句
Which one was it?	疑问句
" "The explorer type.	陈述句
A man called Parry.	陈述句
The journalist, I mean?	疑问句
" "What d'you want to know that for?	疑问句
"No reason.	陈述句
" "As far as I can remember, he was a big blond man.	陈述句
Very pale hair.	陈述句
" "Right, thanks," Will said, and turned to go.	并列句
Will saw him reach for the phone, and left the building quickly.	并列句
The journalist, so called, was one of the men who'd come to his house: a tall man with such fair hair that he seemed to have no eyebrows or eyelashes.	并列句
He wasn't the one Will had knocked down the stairs: he was the one who'd appeared at the door of the living room as Will ran down and jumped over the body.	并列句
There was a large museum nearby.	陈述句
He was trembling hard and feeling sick, because pressing at him was the knowledge that he'd killed someone, that he was a murderer.	并列句
He'd kept it at bay till now, but it was closing in.	并列句
He sat still for half an hour, and it was one of the worst half-hours he'd ever spent.	并列句
Gradually he grew calmer.	陈述句
He'd been defending his mother.	陈述句
They were frightening her; given the state she was in, they were persecuting her.	陈述句
He had a right to defend his home.	陈述句
His father would have wanted him to do that.	陈述句
He did it to stop them from stealing the green leather case.	陈述句
All his childish games came back to him, with himself and his father rescuing each other from avalanches or fighting pirates.	并列句
I'll find you, he said in his mind.	陈述句
And after all, he had somewhere to hide now, somewhere so safe no one would ever find him.	并列句
And the papers from the case (which he still hadn't had time to read) were safe too, under the mattress in Cittagazze.	并列句
Finally he noticed people moving more purposefully, and all in the same direction.	并列句
They were leaving, because the attendant was telling them that the museum would close in ten minutes.	陈述句
He found his way to the High Street, where the lawyer's office was, and wondered about going to see him, despite what he'd said earlier.	并列句
The man had sounded friendly enough.	陈述句
The tall man with the pale eyebrows was getting out of a car.	陈述句
He saw the man's reflection look around, settle the knot of his tie, and go into the lawyer's office.	并列句
As soon as he'd gone in, Will moved away, his heart thudding again.	陈述句
She spoke quietly, but he was startled all the same.	并列句
"Where did you come from?	疑问句
" "I found my Scholar!	陈述句
She's called Dr.	陈述句
Malone.	陈述句
And she's got an engine that can see Dust, and she's going to make it talk—" "I didn't see you coming.	并列句
" "You weren't looking," she said.	陈述句
It's a good thing I found you.	陈述句
Look, it's easy to fool people.	陈述句
Watch.	陈述句
" Two police officers were strolling toward them, a man and a woman on the beat, in their white summer shirtsleeves, with their radios and their batons and their suspicious eyes.	并列句
Before they reached the bench, Lyra was on her feet and speaking to them.	并列句
"Me and my brother was supposed to meet our parents there and we got lost.	并列句
" The policeman looked at Will, and Will, containing his anger, shrugged as if to say, "She's right, we're lost, isn't it silly.	并列句
" The man smiled.	陈述句
The woman said: "Which museum?	疑问句
" she said.	陈述句
"If they were looking for you, I put 'em off.	陈述句
I better stay with you from now on," she went on scoldingly once they'd gone around the corner.	陈述句
"You en't safe on your own.	陈述句
" He said nothing.	陈述句
His heart was thumping with rage.	陈述句
They walked along toward a round building with a great leaden dome, set in a square bounded by honey-colored stone college buildings and a church and wide-crowned trees above high garden walls.	并列句
The afternoon sun drew the warmest tones out of it all, and the air felt rich with it, almost the color itself of heavy golden wine.	并列句
All the leaves were still, and in this little square even the traffic noise was hushed.	并列句
She finally became aware of Will's feelings and said, "What's the matter?	并列句
" "If you speak to people, you just attract their attention," he said, with a shaking voice.	陈述句
I've been doing it all my life.	陈述句
I know how to do it.	陈述句
You shouldn't do that.	陈述句
You're not being serious.	陈述句
" she said, and her anger flashed.	并列句
But I en't lying to you, and I never will, I swear it.	并列句
You're in danger, and if I hadn't done that just then, you'd've been caught.	并列句
If you want my opinion, it's you that en't serious.	陈述句
Or hiding out of sight, safe in that other city?	并列句
Don't tell me I'm not serious.	陈述句
" "You had to come through," she said, furious.	陈述句
No one should speak to her like this.	陈述句
She was an aristocrat.	陈述句
"You had to, else you'd never find out anything about your father.	陈述句
You done it for yourself, not for me.	陈述句
" They were quarreling passionately, but in subdued voices, because of the quiet in the square and the people who were wandering past nearby.	并列句
When she said this, though, Will stopped altogether.	陈述句
He had to lean against the college wall beside him.	陈述句
The color had left his face.	陈述句
"What do you know about my father?	疑问句
" he said very quietly.	陈述句
She replied in the same tone.	陈述句
All I know is you're looking for him.	陈述句
That's all I asked about.	陈述句
" "Asked who?	疑问句
" And she sat down on the stone curb around the grass in the middle of the square and bent her head over the golden instrument and began to turn the hands, her fingers moving almost too quickly to see, and then pausing for several seconds while the slender needle whipped around the dial, flicking to a stop here and there, and then turning the hands to new positions just as quickly.	并列句
k%20Materials%202%20-%20The%20Subtle%20Knife.	陈述句
m.	陈述句
the domed building, an ice cream vendor wheeled his cart along the pavement, but their attention was elsewhere.	并列句
Lyra blinked and sighed, as if she were waking after a sleep.	并列句
"Your mother's ill," she said quietly.	陈述句
"But she's safe.	陈述句
There's this lady looking after her.	陈述句
And you took some letters and ran away.	并列句
And there was a man, I think he was a thief, and you killed him.	并列句
And you're looking for your father, and—" "All right, shut up," said Will.	并列句
Don't ever do that again.	陈述句
That's just spying.	陈述句
"See, the alethio-meter's like a person, almost.	陈述句
I sort of know when it's going to be cross or when there's things it doesn't want me to know.	并列句
I kind of feel it.	陈述句
But when you come out of nowhere yesterday, I had to ask it who you were, or I might not have been safe.	并列句
I had to.	陈述句
And it said.	并列句
"It said you was a murderer, and I thought, Good, that's all right, he's someone I can trust.	并列句
If I done nothing but spy on people, it'd stop working.	并列句
I know that as well as I know my own Oxford.	陈述句
" "You could have asked me instead of that thing.	陈述句
Did it say whether my father was alive or dead?	并列句
" "No, because I didn't ask.	陈述句
" They were both sitting by this time.	陈述句
"Well," he said finally, "I suppose we'll have to trust each other.	陈述句
" "That's all right.	陈述句
" Will nodded grimly.	陈述句
He was so tired, and there was not the slightest possibility of sleep in this world.	并列句
Lyra wasn't usually so perceptive, but something in his manner made her think: He's afraid, but he's mastering his fear, like lorek Byrnison said we had to do; like I did by the fish house at the frozen lake.	并列句
"And, Will," she added, "I won't give you away, not to anyone.	陈述句
I promise.	陈述句
" "I done that before.	陈述句
I betrayed someone.	陈述句
And it was the worst thing I ever did.	并列句
I thought I was saving his life actually, only I was taking him right to the most dangerous place there could be.	陈述句
I hated myself for that, for being so stupid.	并列句
" He said nothing.	陈述句
"We can't go back through the window till much later," he said.	陈述句
"We shouldn't have come through in daylight anyway.	陈述句
And now we've got to hang around for hours.	并列句
" "I'm hungry," Lyra said.	陈述句
Then he said, "I know!	陈述句
We can go to the cinema!	陈述句
" "The what?	疑问句
” "I'll show you.	陈述句
We can get some food there too.	陈述句
" There was a cinema near the city center, ten minutes' walk away.	陈述句
Will paid for both of them to get in, and bought hot dogs and popcorn and Coke, and they carried the food inside and sat down just as the film was beginning.	并列句
Lyra was entranced.	陈述句
She wolfed down the hot dog and the popcorn, gulped the Coca-Cola, and gasped and laughed with delight at the characters on the screen.	并列句
Luckily it was a noisy audience, full of children, and her excitement wasn't conspicuous.	并列句
file:///C|/Music/Books/Text/Pullman/PULLMAN,%20P.	陈述句
k%20Materials%202%20-%20The%20Subtle%20Knife.	陈述句
He woke when he heard the clatter of seats as people moved out, and blinked in the light.	并列句
His watch showed a quarter past eight.	陈述句
Lyra came away reluctantly.	陈述句
"That's the best thing I ever saw in my whole life," she said.	陈述句
"I dunno why they never invented this in my world.	陈述句
We got some things better than you, but this was better than anything we got.	并列句
" Will couldn't even remember what the film had been.	陈述句
It was still light outside, and the streets were busy.	并列句
"D'you want to see another one?	疑问句
" So they went to the next cinema, a few hundred yards away around the corner, and did it again.	并列句
Lyra settled down with her feet on the seat, hugging her knees, and Will let his mind go blank.	并列句
When they came out this time, it was nearly eleven o'clock—much better.	陈述句
Lyra was hungry again, so they bought hamburgers from a cart and ate them as they walked along, something else new to her.	并列句
I never seen people just walking along eating before," she told him.	陈述句
"There's so many ways this place is different.	并列句
I don't like it.	陈述句
And that Scholar, Dr.	并列句
I could probably get the Scholars to give her the money she wants, too.	陈述句
And since Will was such a good audience, she went on and told him the rest of her story, from the time she escaped from Mrs.	并列句
Coulter's flat to the horrible moment when she realized she'd led Roger to his death on the icy cliffs of Svalbard.	陈述句
Will listened without comment, but attentively, with sympathy.	并列句
Her account of a voyage in a balloon, of armored bears and witches, of a vengeful arm of the Church, seemed all of a piece with his own fantastic dream of a beautiful city on the sea, empty and silent and safe: it couldn't be true, it was as simple as that.	并列句
And there was the window.	并列句
Will felt himself smiling.	陈述句
"Wait till there's no cars coming," he said.	陈述句
"I'm going through now.	陈述句
" And a moment later he was on the grass under the palm trees, and a second or two afterward Lyra followed.	并列句
They felt as if they were home again.	陈述句
The wide warm night, and the scent of flowers and the sea, and the silence, bathed them like soothing water.	并列句
Lyra stretched and yawned, and Will felt a great weight lift off his shoulders.	并列句
He had been carrying it all day, and he hadn't noticed how it had nearly pressed him into the ground; but now he felt light and free and at peace.	并列句
Somewhere in the little streets beyond the cafe, something was screaming.	陈述句
Will set off at once toward the sound, and Lyra followed behind as he plunged down a narrow alley shadowed from the moonlight.	并列句
After several twists and turns they came out into the square in front of the stone tower they'd seen that morning.	并列句
Twenty or so children were facing inward in a semicircle at the base of the tower, and some of them had sticks in their hands, and some were throwing stones at whatever they had trapped against the wall.	并列句
k%20Materials%202%20-%20The%20Subtle%20Knife.	陈述句
htm (52 of 157)7/09/2003 11:42:22 p.	陈述句
It was a boy of about his own age, a boy in a striped T-shirt.	陈述句
As he turned Lyra saw the wild white rims around his pupils, and then the other children realized what was happening and stopped to look.	并列句
They fell silent.	陈述句
Only the high wailing continued, and then both Will and Lyra saw what it was: a tabby cat, cowering against the wall of the tower, its ear torn and its tail bent.	并列句
It was the cat Will had seen in Sunderland Avenue, the one like Moxie, the one that had led him to the window.	陈述句
As soon as he saw her, he flung aside the boy he was holding.	陈述句
Will was already kneeling by the cat.	陈述句
She fled to his breast and he cradled her close and stood to face the children, and Lyra thought for a crazy second that his daemon had appeared at last.	并列句
They stood trembling at Will's anger, breathing heavily, clutching their sticks and their stones, and they couldn't speak.	并列句
But then Angelica's voice came clearly: "You ain' from here!	并列句
You didn' know about Specters, you don' know about cats either.	陈述句
You ain' like us!	陈述句
" The boy in the striped T-shirt whom Will had thrown down was trembling to fight, and if it hadn't been for the cat in Will's arms, he would have flown at Will with fists and teeth and feet, and Will would have gladly joined battle.	并列句
"Where you come from?	疑问句
"Doesn't matter where we come from.	陈述句
If you're scared of this cat, I'll take her away from you.	陈述句
If she's bad luck to you, she'll be good luck for us.	陈述句
Now get out of the way.	陈述句
" For a moment Will thought their hatred would overcome their fear, and he was preparing to put the cat down and fight, but then came a low thunderous growl from behind the children, and they turned to see Lyra standing with her hand on the shoulders of a great spotted leopard whose teeth shone white as he snarled.	并列句
Its effect on the children was dramatic: they turned and fled at once.	并列句
A growl from Pantalaimon prompted her, and just briefly she saw someone there on the very top, looking down over the battle-mented rim, and not a child either, but a young man, with curly hair.	并列句
Half an hour later they were in the flat above the cafe.	陈述句
Will had found a tin of condensed milk, and the cat had lapped it hungrily and then begun to lick her wounds.	并列句
Lyra watched Will tending this one with fascination.	陈述句
The only animals she had been close to in her world (apart from the armored bears) were working animals of one sort or another.	并列句
Cats were for keeping Jordan College clear of mice, not for making pets of.	陈述句
"I think her tail's broken," Will said.	陈述句
"I don't know what to do about that.	陈述句
Maybe it'll heal by itself.	陈述句
I'll put some honey on her ear.	陈述句
I read about that somewhere; it's antiseptic.	陈述句
" It was messy, but at least it kept her occupied licking it off, and the wound was getting cleaner all the time.	并列句
file:///C|/Music/Books/Text/Pullman/PULLMAN,%20P.	陈述句
k%20Materials%202%20-%20The%20Subtle%20Knife.	陈述句
m.	陈述句
"You sure this is the one you saw?	疑问句
" she said.	陈述句
" "They were just crazy," Lyra said.	陈述句
"They would have killed her.	陈述句
I never seen kids being like that.	陈述句
" "I have," said Will.	陈述句
But his face had closed; he didn't want to talk about it, and she knew better than to ask.	并列句
She knew she wouldn't even ask the alethiometer.	陈述句
She was very tired, so presently she went to bed and slept at once.	并列句
There was enough light corning through the window for him to read by, and he wanted to look at the papers.	并列句
There weren't many.	陈述句
As he'd thought, they were letters, written on airmail paper in black ink.	陈述句
These very marks were made by the hand of the man he wanted so much to find; he moved his fingers over and over them, and pressed them to his face, trying to get closer to the essence of his father.	并列句
He wouldn 't talk there—took me back to his apartment.	陈述句
With the help of a bottle of Jack Daniel's he talked for a long time—hadn 't seen it himself, but he 'd met an Eskimo who had, and this chap said it was a doorway into the spirit world.	并列句
They 'd known about it for centuries; pan of the initiation of a medicine man involved going through and bringing back a trophy of some kind—though some never came back.	并列句
However, old Jake did have a map of the area, and he 'd marked on it where his pal had told him the thing was.	并列句
(Just in case: it's at 69°02'11" N, 157°12'19" W,ona spur of Lookout Ridge a mile or two north of the Colville River.	并列句
) We then got on to other Arctic legends—the Norwegian ship that's been drifting unmanned for sixty years, stuff like that.	陈述句
The archaeologists are a decent crew, keen to get to work, containing their impatience with Nelson and his balloons.	并列句
None of them has ever heard of the anomaly, and believe me I'm going to keep it like that.	并列句
My fondest love to you both.	陈述句
Johnny.	陈述句
The holdup in Fairbanks was orchestrated by him, would you believe?	疑问句
Knowing that the rest of the team wouldn't want to wait for anything less than an unarguable reason like no transport, he personally sent ahead and canceled the vehicles that had been ordered.	并列句
I found this out by accident, and I was going to ask him what the hell he was playing at when I overheard him file:///C|/Music/Books/Text/Pullman/PULLMAN,%20P.	并列句
k%20Materials%202%20-%20The%20Subtle%20Knife.	陈述句
htm (54 of 157)7/09/2003 11:42:22 p.	陈述句
Later on I bought him a drink, played the bluff soldier, old Arctic hand, "more things in heaven and earth " line.	并列句
—watching him closely.	陈述句
Then sprung the anomaly on him—Eskimo legend of a doorway into spirit world—invisible—somewhere near Lookout Ridge, would you believe, where we're heading for, fancy that.	陈述句
He knew exactly what I meant.	陈述句
The question is, do I tell him or not?	并列句
Fondest love to both— Johnny.	陈述句
Colville Bar, Alaska Monday, 24 June 1985 Darling—I won't get a chance to post another letter for a while—this is the last town before we take to the hills, the Brooks Range.	陈述句
The archaeologists are fizzing to get up there.	陈述句
One chap is convinced he'll find evidence of much earlier habitation than anyone suspected.	陈述句
I said how much earlier, and why was he convinced.	并列句
He told me of some narwhal-ivory carvings he'd found on a previous dig—carbon 14-dated to some incredible age, way outside the range of what was previously assumed; anomalous, in fact.	陈述句
Talking of which, the physicist Nelson is my closest buddy now— kids me along, drops hints to imply that he knows that I know that he knows, etc.	陈述句
But I know he's after it.	并列句
I looked in the crate—a radiation suit if ever I've seen one.	陈述句
A rum do, my darling.	陈述句
I shall stick to my plan: take the archaeologists to their spot and go off by my self for a few days to look for the anomaly.	并列句
If I bump into Nelson wandering about on Lookout Ridge, I'll play it by ear.	陈述句
He told me the Soviets had been looking for the anomaly too; he'd come across a man earlier this year high up in the range and watched him for a couple of days without being seen, because he guessed what he was doing, and he was right, and the man turned out to be Russian, a spy.	并列句
But he described the thing to me.	并列句
It's like a gap in the air, a sort of window.	陈述句
You look through it and you see another world.	并列句
But it's not easy to find because that part of the other world looks just like this—rocks and moss and so forth.	并列句
It's on the north side of a small creek fifty paces or so to the west of a tall rock shaped like a standing bear, and the position Jake gave me is not quite right—it's nearer 12" N than 11.	并列句
I'll bring you back a trophy from the spirit world.	陈述句
I love you forever— kiss the boy for me—Johnny.	陈述句
Will found his head ringing.	陈述句
His father was describing exactly what he himself had found under the hornbeam trees.	陈述句
He, too, had found a window—he even used the same word for it!	陈述句
So Will must be on the right track.	并列句
file:///C|/Music/Books/Text/Pullman/PULLMAN,%20P.	陈述句
htm (55 of 157)7/09/2003 11:42:22 p.	陈述句
m.	陈述句
He had no idea what it meant.	陈述句
He folded the letters away and fell asleep.	并列句
SIX LIGHTED FLIERS "Grumman?	疑问句
"From the Berlin Academy?	疑问句
Reckless.	陈述句
He nudged the plate of pickled fish and black bread toward Lee, who took a mouthful and nodded for Sam to tell him more.	并列句
Instead of using regular medicines, he insisted on using the stuff the bears use— bloodmoss—some kind of lichen, it ain't a true moss.	陈述句
Anyway, he was lying on a sledge alternately roaring with pain and calling out instructions to his men—they were taking star sights, and they had to get the measurements right or he'd lash them with his tongue, and boy, he had a tongue like barbed wire.	并列句
You know he was a Tartar, by initiation?	疑问句
" "You don't say," said Lee Scoresby, tipping more vodka into Sam's glass.	陈述句
His daemon, Hester, crouched at his elbow on the bar, eyes half-closed as usual, ears flat along her back.	陈述句
Lee had arrived that afternoon, borne to Nova Zembla by the wind the witches had called up, and once he'd stowed his equipment he'd made straight for the Samirsky Hotel, near the fish-packing station.	并列句
This was a place where many Arctic drifters stopped to exchange news or look for employment or leave messages for one another, and Lee Scoresby had spent several days there in the past, waiting for a contract or a passenger or a fair wind, so there was nothing unusual in his conduct now.	并列句
And with the vast changes they sensed in the world around them, it was natural for people to gather and talk.	并列句
With every day that passed came more news: the river Yenisei was free of ice, and at this time of year, too; part of the ocean had drained away, exposing strange regular formations of stone on the seabed; a squid a hundred feet long had snatched three fishermen out of their boat and torn them apart.	并列句
file:///C|/Music/Books/Text/Pullman/PULLMAN,%20P.	陈述句
htm (56 of 157)7/09/2003 11:42:22 p.	陈述句
m.	陈述句
And the fog continued to roll in from the north, dense and cold and occasionally drenched with the strangest imaginable light, in which great forms could be vaguely seen, and mysterious voices heard.	并列句
"Did you say Grumman?	疑问句
" said the man sitting just along the bar, an elderly man in seal hunter's rig, whose lemming daemon looked out solemnly from his pocket.	陈述句
"He was a Tartar all right.	陈述句
I was there when he joined that tribe.	陈述句
I saw him having his skull drilled.	陈述句
He had another name, too—a Tartar name; I'll think of it in a minute.	陈述句
" "Well, how about that," said Lee Scoresby.	陈述句
"Let me buy you a drink, my friend.	陈述句
I'm looking for news of this man.	陈述句
At the foot of the Semyonov Range.	陈述句
Near a fork of the Yenisei and the—I forget what it's called— a river that comes down from the hills.	并列句
" "Ah, sure," said Lee.	陈述句
And Grumman had his skull drilled, you say?	并列句
It goes on for two nights and a day.	并列句
" "Ah, that accounts for the way his team was obeying him," said Sam Cansino.	陈述句
"They were the roughest bunch of scoundrels I ever saw, but they ran around doing his bidding like nervous children.	并列句
I thought it was his cursing that did it.	陈述句
But you know, that man's curiosity was as powerful as a wolf's jaws; he would not let go.	并列句
He made me tell him every scrap I knew about the land thereabouts, and the habits of wolverines and foxes.	并列句
A strange man.	陈述句
" "Is that so?	疑问句
" said Lee, thinking of the beauty of Serafina Pekkala.	陈述句
"He shouldn't have done that," said the seal hunter.	陈述句
" "He might have had a reason," said Lee.	陈述句
"If he had any sense, it will have been a good one.	陈述句
" "He was headstrong," said Sam Cansino.	陈述句
" "Yes, I heard that," said the seal hunter.	陈述句
" "His daemon, now," said Sam Cansino, "that was curious.	陈述句
His daemon was an osprey.	陈述句
" "What happened to him?	疑问句
" said Lee Scoresby.	陈述句
" "I heard they beheaded him," said Lee Scoresby.	陈述句
"No, you're both wrong," said the barman, "and I know, because I heard it from an limit who was file:///C|/Music/Books/Text/Pullman/PULLMAN,%20P.	陈述句
k%20Materials%202%20-%20The%20Subtle%20Knife.	陈述句
htm (57 of 157)7/09/2003 11:42:22 p.	陈述句
m.	陈述句
with him.	陈述句
Seems that they were camped out on Sakhalin somewhere and there was an avalanche.	并列句
Grumman was buried under a hundred tons of rock.	陈述句
This Inuit saw it happen.	陈述句
" "What I can't understand," said Lee Scoresby, offering the bottle around, "is what the man was doing.	陈述句
Or was he a military man?	并列句
You said something about measurements, Sam.	陈述句
What would that be?	疑问句
" "They were measuring the starlight.	陈述句
And the aurora.	并列句
He had a passion for the aurora.	陈述句
I think his main interest was in ruins, though.	陈述句
Ancient things.	陈述句
"Up the mountain they have an observatory belonging to the Imperial Muscovite Academy.	陈述句
They'd be able to tell you.	陈述句
" "What d'you want to know for, anyway, Lee?	疑问句
"He owes me some money," said Lee Scoresby.	陈述句
This explanation was so satisfying that it stopped their curiosity at once.	并列句
" "There's a new world?	疑问句
" said Lee.	陈述句
"When it first happened, I was out in my kayak and looking north, just by chance.	并列句
I'll never forget what I saw.	陈述句
Instead of the earth curving down over the horizon, it went straight on.	陈述句
I could see forever, and as far as I could see, there was land and shoreline, mountains, harbors, green trees, and fields of corn, forever into the sky.	并列句
I tell you, friends, that was something worth toiling fifty years to see, a sight like that.	陈述句
" "Ah!	陈述句
It sounded like Jopari.	陈述句
" "Jopari?	疑问句
That's no kind of name I've ever heard of," said Lee.	陈述句
"Might be Nipponese, I suppose.	陈述句
Well, if I want my money, maybe I can chase up his heirs and assigns.	并列句
I'll go ask at the observatory, see if they have an address I can apply to.	陈述句
" The observatory was some distance to the north, and Lee Scoresby hired a dog sledge and driver.	并列句
That happened before?	疑问句
All long time ago, many thousand generation.	陈述句
" "What do they say about it?	疑问句
" "Sky fall open, and spirits move between this world and that world.	并列句
All the lands move.	陈述句
The ice melt, then freeze again.	陈述句
The spirits close up the hole after a while.	陈述句
But witches say the file:///C|/Music/Books/Text/Pullman/PULLMAN,%20P.	并列句
htm (58 of 157)7/09/2003 11:42:22 p.	陈述句
m.	陈述句
sky is thin there, behind the northern lights.	陈述句
" "What's going to happen, Umaq?	疑问句
" "Same thing as before.	陈述句
Make all same again.	陈述句
But only after big trouble, big war.	并列句
Spirit war.	陈述句
" The driver wouldn't tell him any more, and soon they moved on, tracking slowly over undulations and hollows and past outcrops of dim rock, dark through the pallid fog, until the old man said: "Observatory up there.	并列句
You walk now.	陈述句
Path too crooked for sledge.	陈述句
You make yourself a fire, my friend, and sit and rest a spell.	并列句
But the effect was only due to a momentary lifting of the fog, and after a minute it closed in again.	并列句
No lights showed, because the windows were blacked out permanently so as not to spoil the darkness for their telescopes.	并列句
A few minutes after he arrived, Lee was talking to a group of astronomers eager to learn what news he could bring them, for there are few natural philosophers as frustrated as astronomers in a fog.	陈述句
"Grumman?	疑问句
Yes, I'll tell you something about him," said the Director.	陈述句
"He was a member of the Imperial German Academy.	陈述句
I met him in Berlin.	陈述句
I was sure he was German.	陈述句
" "No, I think you'll find he was English.	陈述句
His command of that language was immaculate, anyway," said the Director.	陈述句
He was a geologist—" "No, no, you're wrong," said someone else.	陈述句
I had a long talk with him once.	陈述句
I suppose you'd call him a paleo-archaeologist.	陈述句
" They were sitting, five of them, around a table in the room that served as their common room, living and dining room, bar, recreation room, and more or less everything else.	并列句
Two of them were Muscovites, one was a Pole, one a Yoruba, and one a Skraeling.	并列句
Lee Scoresby sensed that the little community was glad to have a visitor, if only because he introduced a change of conversation.	陈述句
The Pole had been the last to speak, and then the Yoruba interrupted: "What do you mean, a paleo-archaeologist?	并列句
Archaeologists already study what's old; why do you need to put another word meaning 'old' in front of it?	疑问句
" "His field of study went back much further than you'd expect, that's all.	陈述句
He was looking for remains of civilizations from twenty, thirty thousand years ago," the Pole replied.	陈述句
"Utter nonsense!	陈述句
The man was pulling your leg.	陈述句
Civilizations thirty thousand years old?	疑问句
Ha!	陈述句
Where is the evidence?	疑问句
"That's the point.	陈述句
According to Grumman, the earth's magnetic field changed dramatically at various times in the past, and the earth's axis actually moved, too, so that temperate areas became ice-bound.	并列句
" "How?	疑问句
"Oh, he had some complex theory.	陈述句
The point was, any evidence there might have been for very early civilizations was long since buried under the ice.	陈述句
He claimed to have some pho-tograms of file:///C|/Music/Books/Text/Pullman/PULLMAN,%20P.	陈述句
k%20Materials%202%20-%20The%20Subtle%20Knife.	陈述句
m.	陈述句
Is that all?	疑问句
" said the Director.	陈述句
"I'm only reporting, I'm not defending him," said the Pole.	陈述句
"Well, let me see," said the Director.	陈述句
"It was seven years ago I met him for the first time.	陈述句
"But he came out of nowhere.	陈述句
" They talked on for a while, contributing reminiscences and offering suggestions as to what might have become of Grumman, though most of them thought he was probably dead.	并列句
While the Pole went to brew some more coffee, Lee's hare daemon, Hester, said to him quietly: "Check out the Skraeling, Lee.	陈述句
Lee had thought he was naturally taciturn, but prompted by Hester, he casually glanced across during the next break in the conversation to see the man's daemon, a snowy owl, glaring at him with bright orange eyes.	并列句
And then Lee saw something else: the Skraeling was wearing a ring with the Church's symbol engraved on it.	并列句
Suddenly he realized the reason for the man's silence.	陈述句
Every philosophical research establishment, so he'd heard, had to include on its staff a representative of the Magisterium, to act as a censor and suppress the news of any heretical discoveries.	并列句
So, realizing this, and remembering something he'd heard Lyra say, Lee asked: 'Tell me, gentlemen —do you happen to know if Grumman ever looked into the question of Dust?	并列句
" And instantly a silence fell in the stuffy little room, and everyone's attention focused on the Skraeling, though no one looked at him directly.	并列句
Lee knew that Hester would remain inscrutable, with her eyes half-closed and her ears flat along her back, and he put on a cheerful innocence as he looked from face to face.	并列句
Finally he settled on the Skraeling, and said, "I beg your pardon.	并列句
Have I asked about something it's forbidden to know?	疑问句
" The Skraeling said, "Where did you hear mention of this subject, Mr.	陈述句
Scoresby?	疑问句
" "From a passenger I flew across the sea a while back," Lee said easily.	陈述句
Grumman might have inquired into.	陈述句
But it puzzled me, because as an aeronaut I know the skies pretty well, and I'd never come across this stuff.	并列句
" Presently Lee decided it was time to leave; he had learned no more, and he didn't want to keep Umaq waiting.	并列句
He left the astronomers to their fogbound observatory and set off down the track, feeling his way along by following his daemon, whose eyes were closer to the ground.	并列句
It was the Skraeling's owl daemon.	陈述句
Hester could fight; her claws were sharp, too, and she was tough and brave.	并列句
Lee knew that the Skraeling himself must be close by, and reached for the revolver at his belt.	并列句
k%20Materials%202%20-%20The%20Subtle%20Knife.	陈述句
htm (60 of 157)7/09/2003 11:42:22 p.	陈述句
m.	陈述句
He fired at once.	陈述句
The Skraeling fell, grunting, as the bullet thudded into his leg.	陈述句
A moment later the owl daemon swooped with a clumsy fainting movement to his side, and half lay on the snow, struggling to fold her wings.	并列句
Lee Scoresby cocked his pistol and held it to the man's head.	并列句
"Right, you damn fool," he said.	陈述句
"What did you try that for?	疑问句
"Too late for what?	疑问句
" 'Too late to stop.	陈述句
I have already sent a messenger bird.	陈述句
The Magisterium will know of your inquiries, and they will be glad to know about Grumman—" "What about him?	并列句
" "The fact that others are looking for him.	陈述句
It confirms what we thought.	陈述句
And that others know of Dust.	并列句
You are an enemy of the Church, Lee Scoresby.	陈述句
By their fruits shall ye know them.	陈述句
By their questions shall ye see the serpent gnawing at their heart.	陈述句
" The owl was making soft hooting sounds and raising and dropping her wings fitfully.	并列句
There was a gathering red stain in the snow around the Skraeling; even in the fog-thick dimness, Lee could see that the man was going to die.	陈述句
"Reckon my bullet must have hit an artery," he said.	陈述句
" said the Skraeling harshly.	陈述句
"I am glad to die!	陈述句
I shall have the martyr's palm!	陈述句
You will not deprive me of that!	陈述句
Just tell me this—" But he never had the chance to complete his question, because with a bleak little shiver the owl daemon disappeared.	并列句
The Skraeling's soul was gone.	陈述句
Lee had once seen a painting in which a saint of the Church was shown being attacked by assassins.	陈述句
While they bludgeoned his dying body, the saint's daemon was borne upward by cherubs and offered a spray of palm, the badge of a martyr.	并列句
Lee dropped him in distaste.	陈述句
Hester clicked her tongue.	陈述句
"Shoulda reckoned he'd send a message," she said.	陈述句
'Take his ring.	陈述句
" "What the hell for?	疑问句
We ain't thieves, are we?	疑问句
" "No, we're renegades," she said.	陈述句
Once the Church learns about this, we're done for anyway.	陈述句
Take every advantage we can in the meantime.	陈述句
Go on, take the ring and stow it away, and mebbe we can use it.	并列句
" Lee saw the sense, and took the ring off the dead man's finger.	并列句
Peering into the gloom, he saw that the path was edged by a steep drop into rocky darkness, and he rolled the Skraeling's body over.	并列句
"No sense in thinking that," said Hester.	陈述句
These people are insane.	陈述句
" "I guess you're right," he said, and put the pistol away.	并列句
"Tell me, Umaq," Lee said as they set off back to the fish-packing station, "you ever hear of a man called Grumman?	疑问句
" "Oh, sure," said the driver.	陈述句
Grumman.	陈述句
" "Did you know he had a Tartar name?	疑问句
Not Tartar.	陈述句
" file:///C|/Music/Books/Text/Pullman/PULLMAN,%20P.	陈述句
htm (61 of 157)7/09/2003 11:42:22 p.	陈述句
Is he dead?	疑问句
" "You ask me that, I have to say I don't know.	陈述句
So you never know the truth from me.	并列句
So who can I ask?	并列句
" "You better ask his tribe.	陈述句
Better go to Yenisei, ask them.	陈述句
Who drilled his skull?	疑问句
" "Yes.	陈述句
You better ask them.	陈述句
Maybe he not dead, maybe he is.	陈述句
Maybe neither dead nor alive.	陈述句
" "In spirit world.	陈述句
Already I say too much.	陈述句
Say no more now.	陈述句
" And he did not.	并列句
But when they returned to the station, Lee went at once to the docks and looked for a ship that could give him passage to the mouth of the Yenisei.	并列句
Meanwhile, the witches were searching too.	陈述句
The Latvian queen, Ruta Skadi, flew with Serafina Pekkala's company for many days and nights, through fog and whirlwind, over regions devastated by flood or landslide.	并列句
It was certain that they were in a world none of them had known before, with strange winds, strange scents in the air, great unknown birds that attacked them on sight and had to be driven off with volleys of arrows; and when they found land to rest on, the very plants were strange.	并列句
Still, some of those plants were edible, and they found rabbits that made a tasty meal, and there was no shortage of water.	并列句
It might have been a good land to live in, but for the spectral forms that drifted like mist over the grasslands and congregated near streams and low-lying water.	并列句
The witches had never seen anything like them before, and mistrusted them at once.	并列句
"Are they alive, do you think, Serafina Pekkala?	疑问句
" said Ruta Skadi as the witches circled high above a group of the things that stood motionless at the edge of a tract of forest.	陈述句
"Alive or dead, they're full of malice," Serafina replied.	并列句
"I can feel that from here.	陈述句
And unless I knew what weapon could harm them, I wouldn't want to go closer than this.	并列句
Later that day, they saw what the Specters could do.	陈述句
It happened at a river crossing, where a dusty road went over a low stone bridge beside a stand of trees.	陈述句
The late afternoon sun slanted across the grassland, drawing an intense green out of the ground and a dusty gold out of the air, and in that rich oblique light the witches saw a band of travelers making for the bridge, some on foot, some in horse-drawn carts, two of them riding horses.	并列句
Serafina caught her breath: these people had no daemons, and yet they seemed alive.	并列句
She was about to fly down and look more closely when she heard a cry of alarm.	并列句
It came from the rider on the leading horse.	陈述句
He was pointing at the trees, and as the witches looked down, they saw a stream of those spectral forms pouring across the grass, seeming to flow with no effort toward the people, their prey.	并列句
The people scattered.	陈述句
"Fly lower and watch, sisters," Serafina told her companions.	并列句
"But don't interfere till I command.	陈述句
" They saw that the little band contained children as well, some riding in the carts, some walking beside them.	陈述句
And it was clear that the children couldn't see the Specters, and the Specters weren't interested in them; they made instead for the adults.	并列句
k%20Materials%202%20-%20The%20Subtle%20Knife.	陈述句
m.	陈述句
held two little children on her lap, and Ruta Skadi was angered by her cowardice: because she tried to hide behind them, and thrust them out toward the Specter that approached her, as if offering them up to save her own life.	并列句
The children pulled free of the old woman and jumped down from the cart, and now, like the other children around them, ran to and fro in fright, or stood and clung together weeping as the Specters attacked the adults.	并列句
The old woman in the cart was soon enveloped in a transparent shimmer that moved busily, working and feeding in some invisible way that made Ruta Skadi sick to watch.	并列句
The same fate befell every adult in the party apart from the two who had fled on their horses.	陈述句
Fascinated and stunned, Serafina Pekkala flew down even closer.	并列句
There was a father with his child who had tried to ford the river to get away, but a Specter had caught up with them, and as the child clung to the father's back, crying, the man slowed down and stood waist-deep in the water, arrested and helpless.	并列句
What was happening to him?	疑问句
His arms slackened under the child's thighs, and the child fell into the water behind him and grabbed vainly at his hand, gasping, crying, but the man only turned his head slowly and looked down with perfect indifference at his little son drowning beside him.	并列句
That was too much for Serafina.	陈述句
She swooped lower and plucked the child from the water, and as she did so, Ruta Skadi cried out: "Be careful, sister!	并列句
They flew higher, the child screaming and clinging to her waist with sharp fingers, and Serafina saw the Specter behind her, a drift of mist swirling on the water, casting about for its lost prey.	并列句
Ruta Skadi shot an arrow into the heart of it, with no effect at all.	陈述句
Serafina put the child down on the riverbank, seeing that it was in no danger from the Specters, and they retreated to the air again.	并列句
The little band of travelers had halted for good now; the horses cropped the grass or shook their heads at flies, the children were howling or clutching one another and watching from a distance, and every adult had fallen still.	并列句
Their eyes were open; some were standing, though most had sat down; and a terrible stillness hung over them.	并列句
As the last of the Specters drifted away, sated, Serafina flew down and alighted in front of a woman sitting on the grass, a strong, healthy-looking woman whose cheeks were red and whose fair hair was glossy.	并列句
" said Serafina.	陈述句
There was no response.	陈述句
"Can you hear me?	疑问句
Can you see me?	疑问句
With an immense effort the woman looked up.	陈述句
Her eyes were vacant, and when Serafina pinched the skin of her forearm, she merely looked down slowly and then away again.	并列句
The children, meanwhile, were gathering on a little knoll some way off, staring at the witches and whispering together fearfully.	并列句
"The horseman's watching," said a witch.	陈述句
She pointed up to where the road led through a gap in the hills.	陈述句
The rider who'd fled had reined in his horse and turned around to look back, shading his eyes to see what was going on.	并列句
k%20Materials%202%20-%20The%20Subtle%20Knife.	陈述句
htm (63 of 157)7/09/2003 11:42:22 p.	陈述句
m.	陈述句
However the man had behaved when faced with the Specters, he was no coward.	陈述句
As he saw the witches approach, he unslung the rifle from his back and kicked the horse forward onto the grass, where he could wheel and fire and face them in the open; but Serafina Pekkala alighted slowly and held her bow out before laying it on the ground in front of her.	并列句
Whether or not they had that gesture here, its meaning was unmistakable.	并列句
The man lowered the rifle from his shoulder and waited, looking from Serafina to the other witches, and up to their daemons too, who circled in the skies above.	并列句
Women, young and ferocious, dressed in scraps of black silk and riding pine branches through the sky—there was nothing like that in his world, but he faced them with calm wariness.	并列句
Serafina, coming closer, saw sorrow in his face as well, and strength.	并列句
It was hard to reconcile with the memory of his turning tail and running while his companions perished.	并列句
"My name is Serafina Pekkala.	陈述句
What is your name?	疑问句
" "Joachim Lorenz.	陈述句
" "If we did, would that make us your enemy?	疑问句
" He thought for a few moments, and settled his rifle across his thighs.	并列句
" "Because the times have changed.	陈述句
What are those creatures who attacked your party?	疑问句
" "Well, the Specters.	陈述句
We saw you making your escape, and we didn't know what to think.	并列句
Now I understand.	陈述句
" "There's no defense against them," said Joachim Lorenz.	陈述句
Every party of travelers has to include a man and a woman on horseback, by law, and they have to do what we did, or else the children will have no one to look after them.	并列句
The children were running to meet her.	陈述句
"But tell me what you're looking for," Joachim Lorenz went on.	陈述句
"You didn't answer me before.	陈述句
You wouldn't have come here for nothing.	陈述句
" "We're looking for a child," said Serafina, "a young girl from our world.	陈述句
Her name is Lyra Belacqua, called Lyra Silver-tongue.	陈述句
But where she might be, in a whole world, we can't guess.	并列句
" "No.	陈述句
" "Angels?	疑问句
They haven't been so common in the last years, though in my grandfather's time they passed through this world often, or so he used to say.	并列句
" He shaded his eyes and gazed down toward the scattered wagons, the halted travelers.	并列句
The other rider had dismounted now and was comforting some of the children.	并列句
Serafina followed his gaze and said, "If we camp with you tonight and keep guard against the Specters, will you tell us more about this world, and these angels you saw?	并列句
" "Certainly I will.	陈述句
" The witches helped to move the wagons farther along the road, over the bridge and away from the trees where the Specters had come from.	并列句
k%20Materials%202%20-%20The%20Subtle%20Knife.	陈述句
m.	陈述句
them, or tugging the sleeve of a father who said nothing and gazed into nothing and had nothing in his eyes.	并列句
The older ones, some of whom had already lost parents of their own and who had seen it before, simply looked bleak and stayed dumb.	并列句
Serafina picked up the little boy who'd fallen in the river, and who was crying out for his daddy, reaching back over Serafina's shoulder to the silent figure still standing in the water, indifferent.	并列句
Serafina felt his tears on her bare skin.	陈述句
The horsewoman, who wore rough canvas breeches and rode like a man, said nothing to the witches.	并列句
Her face was grim.	陈述句
She moved the children on, speaking sternly, ignoring their tears.	陈述句
The evening sun suffused the air with a golden light in which every detail was clear and nothing was dazzling, and the faces of the children and the man and woman too seemed immortal and strong and beautiful.	并列句
Later, as the embers of a fire glowed in a circle of ashy rocks and the great hills lay calm under the moon, Joachim Lorenz told Serafina and Ruta Skadi about the history of his world.	并列句
It had once been a happy one, he explained.	陈述句
The cities were spacious and elegant, the fields well tilled and fertile.	并列句
Merchant ships plied to and fro on the blue oceans, and fishermen hauled in brimming nets of cod and tunny, bass and mullet; the forests ran with game, and no children went hungry.	并列句
In the courts and squares of the great cities ambassadors from Brasil and Benin, from Eireland and Corea mingled with tabaco sellers, with commedia players from Bergamo, with dealers in fortune bonds.	并列句
The witches listened wide-eyed to this tale of a world so like theirs and yet so different.	并列句
Others say it was a judgment on us for some great sin, though I never heard any agreement about what that sin was.	陈述句
You've seen what they do.	陈述句
Now imagine what it is to live in a world with Specters in it.	陈述句
How can we prosper, when we can't rely on anything continuing as it is?	疑问句
At any moment a father might be taken, or a mother, and the family fall apart; a merchant might be taken, and his enterprise fail, and all his clerks and factors lose their employment; and how can lovers trust their vows?	并列句
All the trust and all the virtue fell out of our world when the Specters came.	并列句
" "Who are these philosophers?	疑问句
" said Serafina.	陈述句
" "In the city we left—Cittagazze.	陈述句
The city of magpies.	陈述句
You know why it's called that?	疑问句
Because magpies steal, and that's all we can do now.	并列句
Oh, yes, we know about other worlds.	陈述句
Those philosophers in the Torre degli Angeli discovered all we need to know about that subject.	陈述句
They have a spell which, if you say it, lets you walk through a door that isn't there, and find yourself in another world.	并列句
Some say it's not a spell but a key that can open even where there isn't a lock.	并列句
Whatever it is, it let the Specters in.	陈述句
They pass into other worlds and steal from them and bring back what they find.	并列句
Gold and jewels, of course, but other things too, like ideas, or sacks of corn, or pencils.	并列句
" "Why don't the Specters harm children?	疑问句
htm (65 of 157)7/09/2003 11:42:22 p.	陈述句
m.	陈述句
But Specter-orphans are common, as you can imagine— children whose parents have been taken; they gather in bands and roam the country, and sometimes they hire themselves out to adults to look for food and supplies in a Specter-ridden area, and sometimes they simply drift about and scavenge.	并列句
"So that is our world.	陈述句
Oh, we managed to live with this curse.	陈述句
They're true parasites: they won't kill their host, though they drain most of the life out of him.	陈述句
But there was a rough balance.	并列句
till recently, till the great storm.	陈述句
Such a storm it was!	陈述句
It sounded as if the whole world was breaking and cracking apart; there hadn't been a storm like that in memory.	并列句
"And then there came a fog that lasted for days and covered every part of the world that I know of, and no one could travel.	并列句
And when the fog cleared, the cities were full of the Specters, hundreds and thousands of them.	并列句
So we fled to the hills and out to sea, but there's no escaping them this time wherever we go.	并列句
As you saw for yourselves.	陈述句
"Now it's your turn.	陈述句
You tell me about your world, and why you've left it to come to this one.	并列句
He was an honest man, and there was nothing that needed concealing from him.	并列句
Well, some think that occasionally they leave a doorway open, out of forgetfulness; 1 wouldn't be surprised if travelers from other worlds found their way here from time to time.	陈述句
We know that angels pass through, after all.	陈述句
" "Angels?	疑问句
" said Serafina.	陈述句
They are new to us.	陈述句
Can you explain them?	疑问句
" said Joachim Lorenz.	陈述句
"Very well.	陈述句
Some call them Watchers, too.	陈述句
They're not beings of flesh like us; they're beings of spirit.	陈述句
Or maybe their flesh is more finely drawn than ours, lighter and clearer, I wouldn't know; but they're not like us.	并列句
They carry messages from heaven, that's their calling.	陈述句
We see them sometimes in the sky, passing through this world on the way to another, shining like fireflies way, way up high.	陈述句
On a still night you can even hear their wingbeats.	陈述句
They have concerns different from ours, though in the ancient days they came down and had dealings with men and women, and they bred with us, too, some say.	并列句
"And when the fog came, after the great storm, I was beset by Specters in the hills behind the city of Sant'Elia, on my way homeward.	陈述句
I took refuge in a shepherd's hut by a spring next to a birch wood, and all night long I heard voices above me in the fog, cries of alarm and anger, and wingbeats too, closer than I'd ever heard them before; and toward dawn there was the sound of a skirmish of arms, the whoosh of arrows, and the clang of swords.	并列句
I daredn't go out and see, though I was powerfully curious, for I was afraid.	并列句
I was stark terrified, if you want to know.	陈述句
I felt as if I was seeing things I had no right to see—sacred things.	陈述句
I had to look away, and when I looked again, the figure was gone.	并列句
"That's the closest I ever came to an angel.	陈述句
But as I told you, we saw them the other night, way high aloft among the stars, making for the Pole, like a fleet of mighty ships under sail.	并列句
There could be a war breaking out.	陈述句
There was a war in heaven once, oh, thousands of years ago, immense ages back, but I don't know what the outcome was.	并列句
It wouldn't be impossible if there was another.	陈述句
"Though," he went on, sitting up to stir the fire, "the end of it might be better than I fear.	陈述句
What a blessing that would be, eh!	陈述句
k%20Materials%202%20-%20The%20Subtle%20Knife.	陈述句
htm (66 of 157)7/09/2003 11:42:22 p.	陈述句
m.	陈述句
of that fearful blight!	陈述句
" Though Joachim Lorenz looked anything but hopeful as he stared into the flames.	并列句
The flickering light played over his face, but there was no play of expression in his strong features; he looked grim and sad.	并列句
Ruta Skadi said, "The Pole, sir.	陈述句
Why would they do that, do you know?	疑问句
Is that where heaven lies?	疑问句
" "I couldn't say.	陈述句
I'm not a learned man, you can see that plain enough.	陈述句
But the north of our world, well, that's the abode of spirits, they say.	并列句
If angels were mustering, that's where they'd go, and if they were going to make an assault on heaven, I daresay that's where they'd build their fortress and sally out from.	并列句
The stars in this world were the same as theirs: the Milky Way blazed bright across the dome of the sky, and innumerable points of starlight dusted the dark, almost matching the moon for brightness.	并列句
"Sir," said Serafina, "did you ever hear of Dust?	疑问句
I guess you mean it in some other sense than the dust on the roads.	陈述句
No, I never did.	陈述句
But look!	并列句
There's a troop of angels now.	陈述句
" He pointed to the constellation of Ophiuchus.	陈述句
Ruta Skadi stood up.	陈述句
"I'm going up to speak to these angels, whatever they may be.	陈述句
If they're going to Lord Asriel, I'll go with them.	陈述句
If not, I'll search on by myself.	陈述句
Thank you for your company, and go well.	并列句
Her daemon, Sergi, a bluethroat, sped out of the dark alongside her.	陈述句
"We're going high?	疑问句
" he said.	陈述句
They're going swiftly, Sergi.	陈述句
Let's catch them!	陈述句
" And she and her dsmon raced upward, flying quicker than sparks from a fire, the air rushing through the twigs on her branch and making her black hair stream out behind.	并列句
She didn't look back at the little fire in the wide darkness, at the sleeping children and her witch companions.	并列句
That part of her journey was over, and, besides, those glowing creatures ahead of her were no larger yet, and unless she kept her eye on them they were easily lost against the great expanse of starlight.	并列句
They were like humans, but winged, and much taller; and, as they were naked, the witch could see that three of them were male, two female.	并列句
Their wings sprang from their shoulder blades, and their backs and chests were deeply muscled.	并列句
Ruta Skadi stayed behind them for some way, watching, measuring their strength in case she should need to fight them.	陈述句
Making her bow ready, just in case, she sped forward and flew alongside them, calling: "Angels!	并列句
Halt and listen to me!	并列句
" They turned.	陈述句
Their great wings beat inward, slowing them, and their bodies swung downward till they were standing upright in the air, holding their position by the beating of their wings.	并列句
k%20Materials%202%20-%20The%20Subtle%20Knife.	陈述句
m.	陈述句
She looked around, sitting on her pine branch proud and unafraid, though her heart was beating with the strangeness of it, and her daemon fluttered to sit close to the warmth of her body.	并列句
Each angel-being was distinctly an individual, and yet they had more in common with one another than with any human she had seen.	并列句
What they shared was a shimmering, darting play of intelligence and feeling that seemed to sweep over them all simultaneously.	并列句
Still, she was unashamed of what she was, and she returned their gaze with head held high.	并列句
"So you are angels," she said, "or Watchers, or bene elim.	并列句
" "We are following a call," said one.	陈述句
She was not sure which one had spoken.	陈述句
"Whose call?	疑问句
" she said.	陈述句
" "It may be.	陈述句
" "Why are you following his call?	疑问句
Ruta Skadi was four hundred and sixteen years old, with all the pride and knowledge of an adult witch queen.	并列句
Nor did she know how far their awareness spread out beyond her like filamentary tentacles to the remotest corners of universes she had never dreamed of; nor that she saw them as human-formed only because her eyes expected to.	陈述句
But they expected nothing else: she was very young.	并列句
At once they beat their wings and surged forward, and she darted with them, surfing on the turbulence their pinions caused in the air and relishing the speed and power it added to her flight.	并列句
They flew throughout the night.	陈述句
The stars wheeled around them, and faded and vanished as the dawn seeped up from the east.	并列句
The world burst into brilliance as the sun's rim appeared, and then they were flying through blue sky and clear air, fresh and sweet and moist.	并列句
In the daylight the angels were less visible, though to any eye their strangeness was clear.	陈述句
The light Ruta Skadi saw them by was still not that of the sun now climbing the sky, but some other light from somewhere else.	并列句
Tirelessly they flew on and on, and tirelessly she kept pace.	并列句
And she rejoiced in her blood and flesh, in the rough pine bark she felt next to her skin, in the beat of her heart and the life of all her senses, and in the hunger she was feeling now, and in the presence of her sweet-voiced bluethroat daemon, and in the earth below her and the lives of every creature, plant and animal both; and she delighted in being of the same substance as them, and in knowing that when she died her flesh would nourish other lives as they had nourished her.	并列句
And she rejoiced, too, that she was going to see Lord Asriel again.	并列句
And at some point the quality of the air changed, not for the worse or the better, but changed nonetheless, and Ruta Skadi knew that they'd passed out of that world and into another.	并列句
How it had happened she couldn't guess.	陈述句
"Angels!	陈述句
"How have we left the world I found you in?	疑问句
k%20Materials%202%20-%20The%20Subtle%20Knife.	陈述句
" "There are invisible places in the air," came the answer.	陈述句
"Gateways into other worlds.	陈述句
We can see them, but you cannot.	并列句
Now she could find it again, if she needed to, despite what the angels might think.	陈述句
They flew on farther, and presently she heard an angel voice: "Lord Asriel is in this world, and there is the fortress he's building.	并列句
" They had slowed, and were circling like eagles in the middle airs.	并列句
Ruta Skadi looked where one angel was pointing.	陈述句
And on the very rim of the world, where the light was increasing moment by moment, a great mountain range reared its peaks—jagged spears of black rock, mighty broken slabs, and sawtooth ridges piled in confusion like the wreckage of a universal catastrophe.	并列句
But on the highest point, which as she looked was touched by the first rays of the morning sun and outlined in brilliance, stood a regular structure: a huge fortress whose battlements were formed of single slabs of basalt half a hill in height, and whose extent was to be measured in flying time.	并列句
Beneath this colossal fortress, fires glared and furnaces smoked in the darkness of early dawn, and from many miles away Ruta Skadi heard the clang of hammers and the pounding of great mills.	并列句
And from every direction, she could see more flights of angels winging toward it, and not only angels, but machines too: steel-winged craft gliding like albatrosses, glass cabins under flickering dragonfly wings, droning zeppelins like huge bumblebees—all making for the fortress mat Lord Asriel was building on the mountains at the edge of the world.	并列句
"Then let's fly there to meet him.	陈述句
" Obediently they spread their wings and set their course toward the gold-rimmed fortress, with the eager witch flying before them.	并列句
She slipped out of bed and downstairs, and hearing some children's voices out on the water, went to see what they were doing.	并列句
Three boys and a girl were splashing across the sunlit harbor in a couple of pedal boats, racing toward the steps.	并列句
As they saw Lyra, they slowed for a moment, but then the race took hold of them again.	并列句
The winners crashed into the steps so hard that one of them fell into the water, and then he tried to climb into the other craft and tipped that over, too, and then they all splashed about together as if the fear of the night before had never happened.	并列句
m.	陈述句
most of the children by the tower, Lyra thought, and she joined them in the water, with Pantalaimon as a little silver fish glittering beside her.	并列句
She never found it hard to talk to other children, and soon they were gathered around her, sitting in pools of water on the warm stone, their shirts drying quickly in the sun.	并列句
Poor Pantalaimon had to creep into her pocket again, frog-shaped in the cool damp cotton.	陈述句
"What you going to do with that cat?	疑问句
" "Where you come from?	疑问句
" "Your friend, he ain' afraid of Specters?	疑问句
" "Will en't afraid of anything," Lyra said.	陈述句
"Nor'm I.	陈述句
What you scared of cats for?	疑问句
" "You don't know about cats?	疑问句
" the oldest boy said incredulously.	陈述句
"Cats, they got the devil in them, all right.	陈述句
You got to kill every cat you see.	陈述句
They bite you and put the devil in you too.	并列句
And what was you doing with that big pard?	并列句
"You must have been dreaming," she said.	陈述句
"There's all kinds of things look different in the moonlight.	陈述句
But me and Will, we don't have Specters where we come from, so we don't know much about 'em.	并列句
That's what my pa said, then they got him.	陈述句
" "And they're here, all around us now?	疑问句
" "Yeah," said the girl.	陈述句
She reached out a hand and grabbed a fistful of air, crowing, "I got one now!	并列句
" "They can't hurt you," one of the boys said.	陈述句
"So we can't hurt them, all right.	陈述句
" "And there's always been Specters in this world?	疑问句
"Yeah," said one boy, but another said, "No, they came a long time ago.	并列句
" "They came because of the Guild," said the third.	陈述句
" said Lyra.	陈述句
" said the girl.	陈述句
" "Your granny don' know nothing," said a boy.	陈述句
"She got a beard, your granny.	陈述句
She's a goat, all right.	陈述句
" Lyra persisted.	陈述句
"You know the Torre degU Angeli," said a boy.	陈述句
Well it belongs to the Guild, and there's a secret place in there.	并列句
The Guild, they're men who know all kind of things.	陈述句
Philosophy, alchemy, all kind of things they know.	陈述句
And they were the ones who let the Specters in.	并列句
" "That ain' true," said another boy.	陈述句
" "It is!	陈述句
This is what happened, all right: this Guild man hundreds of years ago was taking some metal apart.	陈述句
Lead.	陈述句
He was going to make it into gold.	陈述句
And he cut it and cut it smaller and smaller till he came to the smallest piece he could get There ain' nothing smaller than that.	并列句
So small you couldn' see it, even.	并列句
But he cut that, too, and inside the smallest little bit there was all the Specters packed in, twisted over and folded up so tight they took up no space at all.	并列句
But once he cut it, bam!	并列句
That's what my papa said.	陈述句
" "Is there any Guild men in the tower now?	疑问句
" said Lyra.	陈述句
We ain' gonna go in there, all right.	陈述句
Ain' no kids gonna go in there.	陈述句
" "The Guild men ain' afraid to go in there," said another.	陈述句
file:///C|/Music/Books/Text/Pullman/PULLMAN,%20P.	陈述句
htm (70 of 157)7/09/2003 11:42:22 p.	陈述句
m.	陈述句
"They got special magic, or something.	并列句
They're greedy, they live off the poor people," said the girl.	陈述句
"The poor people do all the work, and the Guild men just live there for nothing.	并列句
" Lyra said.	陈述句
"No grownups?	疑问句
" "No grownups in the city at all!	陈述句
" "They wouldn' dare, all right.	陈述句
" But she had seen a young man up there.	并列句
And there was something in the way these children spoke; as a practiced liar, she knew liars when she met them, and they were lying about something.	并列句
She left them to rescue their boats and pedal back to the beach, and went inside to make some coffee and see if Will was awake.	并列句
So she wrote a note and left it on the floor by his bedside, and took her rucksack and went off to look for the window.	并列句
The way she took led her through the little square they'd come to the night before.	陈述句
But it was empty now, and the sunlight dusted the front of the ancient tower and showed up the blurred carvings beside the doorway: humanlike figures with folded wings, their features eroded by centuries of weather, but somehow in their stillness expressing power and compassion and intellectual force.	并列句
They said this was something angeli" he insisted.	陈述句
" They looked up at the great oak door on its ornate black hinges.	陈述句
She tiptoed to the top of the steps and looked through the opening.	并列句
A dark stone-flagged hall was all she could see, and not much of that; but Pantalaimon was fluttering anxiously on her shoulder, just as he had when they'd played the trick on the skulls in the crypt at Jordan College, and she was a little wiser now.	并列句
This was a bad place.	陈述句
And as soon as she was sure there was no one looking, she went straight across to the window and through into Will's Oxford.	并列句
Forty minutes later she was inside the physics building once more, arguing with the porter; but this time she had a trump card "You just ask Dr.	并列句
" The porter turned to his telephone, and Lyra watched pityingly as he pressed the buttons and spoke into it.	并列句
They didn't even give him a proper lodge to sit in, like a real Oxford college, just a big wooden counter, as if it was a shop.	陈述句
"All right," said the porter, turning back.	陈述句
"She says go on up.	陈述句
" "No, I won't," she said demurely, a good little girl doing what she was told.	陈述句
At the top of the stairs, though, she had a surprise, because just as she passed a door with a symbol indicating woman on it, it opened and there was Dr.	并列句
This wasn't the laboratory, it was a washroom, and Dr.	并列句
They know you came file:///C|/Music/Books/Text/Pullman/PULLMAN,%20P.	陈述句
m.	陈述句
to see me yesterday—I don't know what they're after, but I don't like it What's going on?	并列句
" "How do they know I came to see you?	疑问句
They didn't know your name, but I knew who they meant—" "Oh.	并列句
That's easy.	陈述句
" "But what is going on?	疑问句
” A woman's voice spoke from the corridor outside: "Dr.	陈述句
Malone called.	陈述句
"I was just showing her where the washroom is.	陈述句
" There was no need for her to be so anxious, thought Lyra, but perhaps she wasn't used to danger.	并列句
The woman in the corridor was young and dressed very smartly, and she tried to smile when Lyra came out, but her eyes remained hard and suspicious.	并列句
"Hello," she said.	陈述句
"You're Lyra, are you?	疑问句
" "I'm Sergeant Clifford.	陈述句
Come along in.	陈述句
" Lyra thought this young woman had a nerve, acting as if it were her own laboratory, but she nodded meekly.	并列句
That was the moment when she first felt a twinge of regret.	陈述句
She stood doubtfully in the doorway.	陈述句
"Come in, Lyra," said Sergeant Clifford again.	陈述句
" "Hello, Lyra," said the man.	陈述句
"I've been hearing all about you from Dr.	陈述句
Malone here.	陈述句
I'd like to ask you a few questions, if that's all right.	陈述句
" "What sort of questions?	疑问句
" she said.	陈述句
Lyra sat down carefully, and heard the door close itself.	并列句
Dr.	陈述句
" said Inspector Walters.	陈述句
But she couldn't say another world, either.	并列句
These people were dangerous; they'd want to know more at once.	陈述句
She thought of the only other name she knew of in this world: the place Will had come from.	陈述句
"Winchester," she said.	陈述句
" said the inspector.	陈述句
There's a bruise on your cheek, and another on your leg—has someone been knocking you about?	并列句
" "No," said Lyra.	陈述句
"Do you go to school, Lyra?	疑问句
" "Yeah.	陈述句
Sometimes," she added.	陈述句
"Shouldn't you be at school today?	疑问句
She looked at Dr.	陈述句
Malone, whose face was tight and unhappy.	并列句
"I just came here to see Dr.	陈述句
Malone," Lyra said.	陈述句
" "With some people," she said.	陈述句
"Just friends.	陈述句
" "What's their address?	疑问句
" "I don't know exactly what it's called.	陈述句
k%20Materials%202%20-%20The%20Subtle%20Knife.	陈述句
m.	陈述句
"Who are these people?	疑问句
" "Just friends of my father," she said.	陈述句
"Oh, I see.	陈述句
How did you find Dr.	陈述句
Malone?	疑问句
"And she showed you what she was working on, did she?	疑问句
" "Yeah.	陈述句
The engine with the screen.	陈述句
Yes, all that.	陈述句
" "Yeah.	陈述句
Physics, especially.	陈述句
" "You going to be a scientist when you grow up?	疑问句
" That sort of question deserved a blank stare, which it got.	陈述句
He wasn't disconcerted.	陈述句
His pale eyes looked briefly at the young woman, and then back to Lyra.	并列句
"And were you surprised at what Dr.	陈述句
Malone showed you?	疑问句
" "Well, sort of, but I knew what to expect" "Because of your father?	并列句
Do you understand it?	疑问句
" "Yes.	陈述句
" "Has he got as far as Dr.	陈述句
" "Not in the same way.	陈述句
" "Yes, he—" And she stopped.	并列句
She knew at once she'd made a horrible mistake.	陈述句
So did they, and they were on their feet in a moment to stop her from running out but somehow Dr.	并列句
Malone was in the way, and the sergeant tripped and fell, blocking the way of the inspector.	并列句
It gave Lyra time to dart out, slam the door shut behind her, and run full tilt for the stairs.	并列句
Two men in white coats came out of a door, and she bumped into them.	并列句
Stop there!	陈述句
" But the flap he had to lift was at the other end, and she got to the revolving door before he could come out and catch her.	并列句
Pantalaimon shrieked at her: they were pushing the wrong side!	陈述句
She cried out in fear and turned herself around, hurling her little weight against the heavy glass, willing it to turn, and got it to move just in time to avoid the grasp of the porter, who then got in the way of the pale-haired man, so Lyra could dash out and away before they got through.	并列句
But she was quick, dodging bicycles, always with the pale-haired man just behind her—oh, he was frightening!	并列句
Into a garden, over a fence, through some bushes— Pantalaimon skimming overhead, a swift, calling to her which way to go; crouching down behind a coal bunker as the pale man's footsteps file:///C|/Music/Books/Text/Pullman/PULLMAN,%20P.	陈述句
k%20Materials%202%20-%20The%20Subtle%20Knife.	陈述句
htm (73 of 157)7/09/2003 11:42:22 p.	陈述句
m.	陈述句
came racing past, and she couldn't hear him panting, he was so fast, and so fit; and Pantalaimon said, "Back now!	并列句
She stopped to gain her breath.	陈述句
"She helped us!	陈述句
" Pantalaimon said.	陈述句
"Dr.	陈述句
Malone got in their way.	陈述句
She's on our side, not theirs.	陈述句
" "Oh, Pan," she said, "I shouldn't have said that about Will.	陈述句
I should've been more careful—" "Shouldn't have come," he said severely.	陈述句
"I know.	陈述句
" But she hadn't got time to berate herself, because Pantalaimon fluttered to her shoulder, and then said, "Look out—behind—" and immediately changed to a cricket again and dived into her pocket.	并列句
She stood, ready to run, and saw a large, dark blue car gliding silently to the pavement beside her.	并列句
She was braced to dart in either direction, but the car's rear window rolled down, and there looking out was a face she recognized.	并列句
"How nice to see you again.	陈述句
Can I give you a lift anywhere?	疑问句
" And he opened the door and moved up to make room beside him.	并列句
Pantalaimon nipped her breast through the thin cotton, but she got in at once, clutching the rucksack, and the man leaned across her and pulled the door shut.	并列句
"You look as if you're in a hurry," he said.	陈述句
"Where d'you want to go?	疑问句
" "Up Summertown," she said, "please.	陈述句
" The driver was wearing a peaked cap.	陈述句
Everything about the car was smooth and soft and powerful, and the smell of the old man's cologne was strong in the enclosed space.	并列句
The car pulled out from the pavement and moved away with no noise at all.	并列句
"So what have you been up to, Lizzie?	疑问句
" the old man said.	陈述句
There was no sign of the pale-haired man.	陈述句
She felt a little hiccup of triumph.	陈述句
Some of them are very old indeed.	陈述句
Neanderthal, you know.	陈述句
" "Yeah, that's what I heard too," Lyra said, with no idea what he was talking about.	陈述句
"And how's your friend?	疑问句
" said Lyra, alarmed.	陈述句
"The friend you're staying with.	陈述句
" "Oh.	陈述句
Yes.	陈述句
She's very well, thank you.	陈述句
" "Oh.	陈述句
she's a physicist.	陈述句
this old man was familiar in some long-lost way, and she just couldn't place it.	并列句
"Dark matter?	疑问句
I saw something about that in The Times this morning.	陈述句
The universe is full of this mysterious stuff, and nobody knows what it is!	并列句
And your friend file:///C|/Music/Books/Text/Pullman/PULLMAN,%20P.	并列句
m.	陈述句
is on the track of it, is she?	疑问句
" "Yes.	陈述句
" "And what are you going to do later on, Lizzie?	疑问句
" , "I might," said Lyra.	陈述句
"It depends.	陈述句
" The chauffeur coughed gently and slowed the car down.	并列句
"Well, here we are in Summertown," said the old man.	陈述句
"Where would you like to be dropped?	疑问句
" "Oh, just up past these shops.	陈述句
I can walk from there," said Lyra.	陈述句
" 'Turn left into South Parade, and pull up on the right, could you, Allan," said the old man.	并列句
A minute later the car came to a silent halt outside a public library.	陈述句
The old man held open the door on his side, so that Lyra had to climb past his knees to get out.	并列句
There was a lot of space, but somehow it was awkward, and she didn't want to touch him, nice as he was.	并列句
"Don't forget your rucksack," he said, handing it to her.	陈述句
"Thank you," she said.	陈述句
"I'll see you again, I hope, Lizzie," he said.	陈述句
She had a feeling about that pale-haired man, and she wanted to ask the alethiometer.	并列句
I want him dead!	陈述句
I wish lorek was here!	陈述句
What's the matter?	疑问句
" "That old man—he en't nothing but a low thief.	并列句
He stole it, Will!	陈述句
He stole my alethiometer!	陈述句
Oh, I done such wrong things this morning—oh, I—" And she sobbed so passionately he thought that hearts really did break, and hers was breaking now, for she fell to the ground wailing and shuddering, and Pantalaimon beside her became a wolf and howled with bitter grief.	并列句
" he said.	陈述句
"Tell me from the beginning.	陈述句
What old man?	疑问句
What happened?	疑问句
" "You're going to be so angry.	并列句
" she sobbed, and Pantalaimon became a young clumsy dog with lowered ears and wagging tail, squirming with self-abasement; and Will understood that Lyra had done something that she was too ashamed to tell him about, and he spoke to the daemon.	并列句
"What happened?	疑问句
Pantalaimon said, "We went to the Scholar, and there was someone else there—a man and a woman—and they tricked us.	并列句
htm (75 of 157)7/09/2003 11:42:22 p.	陈述句
m.	陈述句
Lyra was hiding her face in her hands, pressing her head down against the pavement.	陈述句
Pantalaimon was flickering from shape to shape in his agitation: dog, bird, cat, snow-white ermine.	陈述句
"What did the man look like?	疑问句
"Big," said Lyra's muffled voice, "and ever so strong, and pale eyes.	并列句
" "Did he see you come back through the window?	疑问句
" "No, but.	陈述句
" "Well, he won't know where we are, then.	陈述句
" "But the alethiometer!	陈述句
" she cried, and she sat up fiercely, her face rigid with emotion, like a Greek mask.	并列句
He could see how devastated she was, but not why she should feel guilty.	并列句
And then she said: "And, Will, please, I done something very bad.	并列句
I had to help you find your father.	陈述句
And I could, I could take you to wherever he is, if I had it.	并列句
But I wouldn't listen.	并列句
I just done what / wanted to do, and I shouldn't.	并列句
" He'd seen her use it, and he knew it could tell her the truth.	并列句
The children were playing again across the harbor.	陈述句
" "I can't see how.	陈述句
" "Nor can I, but.	陈述句
" She stopped in midsentence, and a light came into her eyes.	并列句
She turned and raced back to her rucksack, abandoned on the pavement, and rummaged through it feverishly.	并列句
"I know who he is!	陈述句
And where he lives!	并列句
Look!	陈述句
" she said, and held up a little white card.	并列句
" Will took the card and read: SIR CHARLES LATROM, CBE LlMEFIELD HOUSE OLD HEADINGTON OXFORD "He's a sir," he said.	并列句
That means people will automatically believe him and not us.	并列句
What did you want me to do, anyway?	疑问句
Go to the police?	疑问句
The police are after me!	陈述句
Or if they weren't yesterday, they will be by now.	并列句
" "We could steal it.	陈述句
I know where Headington is, there's a Headington in my Oxford too.	陈述句
It en't far.	陈述句
We could walk there in an hour, easy.	陈述句
" file:///C|/Music/Books/Text/Pullman/PULLMAN,%20P.	陈述句
k%20Materials%202%20-%20The%20Subtle%20Knife.	陈述句
htm (76 of 157)7/09/2003 11:42:22 p.	陈述句
m.	陈述句
"lorek Byrnison would go there straightaway and rip his head off.	并列句
I wish he was here.	陈述句
He'd—" But she fell silent.	并列句
Will was just looking at her, and she quailed.	并列句
She would have quailed in the same way if the armored bear had looked at her like that, because there was something not unlike lorek in Will's eyes, young as they were.	陈述句
"I never heard anything so stupid in my life," he said.	并列句
"You think we can just go to his house and creep in and steal it?	并列句
You need to think.	陈述句
He's going to have all kinds of burglar alarms and stuff, if he's a rich man.	并列句
I couldn't know that, Will.	陈述句
" "All right, then think of this: He's got a whole house to hide it in, and how long would any burglar have to look through every cupboard and drawer and hiding place in a whole house?	并列句
Those men who came to my house had hours to look around, and they never found what they were looking for, and I bet he's got a whole lot bigger house than we have.	并列句
And probably a safe, too.	并列句
So even if we did get into his house, we'd never find it in time before the police came.	并列句
"What we going to do then?	疑问句
" she said.	陈述句
He didn't answer.	陈述句
But it was we, for certain.	并列句
He walked to the water's edge, and back to the terrace, and back to the water again.	并列句
"Just.	陈述句
go there," he said.	陈述句
"Just go there and see him.	并列句
It's no good asking your scholar to help us, either, not if the police have been to her.	陈述句
She's bound to believe them rather than us.	陈述句
At least if we get into his house, we'll see where the main rooms are.	陈述句
That'll be a start.	陈述句
" Without another word he went inside and put the letters under the pillow in the room he'd slept in.	并列句
Lyra was waiting on the terrace, with Pantalaimon perched on her shoulder as a sparrow.	陈述句
She was looking more cheerful.	陈述句
" He said nothing.	陈述句
They set off for the window.	陈述句
It took an hour and a half to walk to Headington.	并列句
Lyra led the way, avoiding the city center, and Will kept watch all around, saying nothing.	并列句
It was much harder for Lyra now than it had been even in the Arctic, on the way to Bolvangar, for then she'd had the gyptians and lorek Byrnison with her, and even if the tundra was full of danger, you knew the danger when you saw it.	并列句
Here, in the city that was both hers and not hers, danger could look friendly, and treachery smiled and smelled sweet; and even if they weren't going to kill her or part her from Pantalaimon, they had robbed her of her only guide.	并列句
Without the alethiometer, she was.	陈述句
It stood in a large, well-tended garden, with shrubbery at one side and a gravel drive sweeping up to the front door.	并列句
Everything Will could see spoke of wealth and power, the sort of informal settled superiority that some upper-class English people still took for granted.	并列句
There was something about it that made him grit his teeth, and he didn't know why, until suddenly he remembered an occasion when he was very young.	并列句
His mother had taken him to a house not unlike this; they'd dressed in their best clothes and he'd had to be on his best behavior, and an old man and woman had made his mother cry, and they'd left the house and she was still crying.	并列句
Lyra saw him breathing fast and clenching his fists, and was sensible enough not to ask why; it was file:///C|/Music/Books/Text/Pullman/PULLMAN,%20P.	并列句
k%20Materials%202%20-%20The%20Subtle%20Knife.	陈述句
something to do with him, not with her.	陈述句
"Well," he said, "might as well try.	陈述句
" He walked up the drive, and Lyra followed close behind.	并列句
They felt very exposed.	陈述句
The door had an old-fashioned bell pull, like those in Lyra's world, and Will didn't know where to find it till Lyra showed him.	并列句
The man who opened the door was the servant who'd been driving the car, only now he didn't have his cap on.	陈述句
He looked at Will first, and then at Lyra, and his expression changed a little.	并列句
"We want to see Sir Charles Latrom," Will said.	陈述句
The servant nodded.	陈述句
"I'll tell Sir Charles.	陈述句
" He closed the door.	陈述句
It was solid oak, with two heavy locks, and bolts top and bottom, though Will thought that no sensible burglar would try the front door anyway.	并列句
And there was a burglar alarm prominently fixed to the front of the house, and a large spotlight at each corner; they'd never be able to get near it, let alone break in.	并列句
Steady footsteps came to the door, and then it opened again.	并列句
Sensing Lyra beside him impatient and angry, Will said quickly, "Excuse me, but Lyra thinks that when she had a lift in your car earlier on, she left something in it by mistake.	并列句
" "Lyra?	疑问句
I know a child called Lizzie.	陈述句
" Cursing himself for forgetting, Will said, "I'm her brother.	陈述句
Mark.	陈述句
" "I see.	陈述句
Hello, Lizzie, or Lyra.	并列句
You'd better come in.	陈述句
Neither Will nor Lyra was quite expecting this, and they stepped inside uncertainly.	并列句
The hall was dim and smelled of beeswax and flowers.	并列句
Every surface was polished and clean, and a mahogany cabinet against the wall contained dainty porcelain figures.	并列句
"Come into my study," said Sir Charles, and held open another door off the hall.	并列句
He was being courteous, even welcoming, but there was an edge to his manner that put Will on guard.	并列句
There were three or four glass-fronted cabinets containing antique scientific instruments—brass microscopes, telescopes covered in green leather, sextants, compasses; it was clear why he wanted the alethiometer.	并列句
" "You stole—" began Lyra hotly, but Will looked at her, and she stopped.	并列句
"We've come to get it back.	陈述句
" "Is this the object you mean?	疑问句
" he said, and took a velvet cloth from a drawer in the desk.	并列句
Lyra stood up.	陈述句
He ignored her and unfolded the cloth, disclosing the golden splendor of the alethiometer resting in his palm.	并列句
"Yes!	陈述句
" Lyra burst out, and reached for it But he closed his hand.	并列句
The desk was wide, and she couldn't reach; and before she could do anything else, he swung around and placed the alethiometer in a glass-fronted cabinet before locking it and dropping the key in his waistcoat pocket.	并列句
"But it isn't yours, Lizzie," he said.	陈述句
"Or Lyra, if that's your name.	陈述句
" "It is mine!	陈述句
It's my alethiometer!	陈述句
" file:///C|/Music/Books/Text/Pullman/PULLMAN,%20P.	陈述句
htm (78 of 157)7/09/2003 11:42:22 p.	陈述句
m.	陈述句
"I think at the very least there's considerable doubt about the matter," he said.	陈述句
"But it is hers!	陈述句
" said Will.	陈述句
She's shown it to me!	陈述句
I know it's hers!	陈述句
" "You see, I think you'd have to prove that," he said.	陈述句
"I don't have to prove anything, because it's in my possession.	陈述句
It's assumed to be mine.	陈述句
I must say, Lyra, I'm surprised to find you so dishonest—" "I en't dishonest!	并列句
"Oh, but you are.	并列句
You told me your name was Lizzie.	陈述句
Frankly, you haven't got a hope of convincing anyone that a precious piece like this belongs to you.	陈述句
Let's call the police.	陈述句
"No, wait—" said Will, before Sir Charles could speak, but Lyra ran around the desk, and from nowhere Pantalaimon was in her arms, a snarling wildcat baring his teeth and hissing at the old man.	并列句
But you—you—you're worse than my mother.	并列句
At least she knows it's important!	陈述句
You're just going to put it in a case and do nothing with it!	并列句
You're—" She couldn't speak.	陈述句
All she could do was spit full in his face, so she did, with all her might.	并列句
Sir Charles calmly shook out a silk handkerchief and mopped himself.	并列句
"Have you any control over yourself?	疑问句
" Lyra felt tears shaken out of her eyes by the trembling of her body, and threw herself onto die sofa.	并列句
Pantalaimon, his thick cat's tail erect, stood on her lap with his blazing eyes fixed on the old man.	陈述句
Sir Charles could have thrown them out long before this.	陈述句
What was he playing at?	疑问句
And then he saw something so bizarre he thought he had imagined it Out of the sleeve of Sir Charles's linen jacket, past the snowy white shirt cuff, came the emerald head of a snake.	并列句
Its black tongue flicked this way, that way, and its mailed head with its gold-rimmed black eyes moved from Lyra to Will and back again.	并列句
Sir Charles moved to the window seat and calmly sat down, arranging the crease in his trousers.	并列句
"I think you'd better listen to me instead of behaving in this uncontrolled way," he said.	陈述句
"You really haven't any choice.	陈述句
The instrument is in my possession and will stay there.	并列句
I want it.	陈述句
I'm a collector.	陈述句
I can do that very easily.	陈述句
" They were both silent now.	陈述句
He hadn't finished.	陈述句
And I can't get it myself, so I'm prepared to make a deal with you.	并列句
" "Alethiometer," said Lyra hoarsely.	陈述句
file:///C|/Music/Books/Text/Pullman/PULLMAN,%20P.	陈述句
k%20Materials%202%20-%20The%20Subtle%20Knife.	陈述句
m.	陈述句
"Alethiometer.	陈述句
How interesting.	陈述句
Alethia, truth—those emblems—yes, I see.	陈述句
" "What's this thing you want?	疑问句
" said Will.	陈述句
" "It's somewhere I can't go, but you can.	并列句
I guess it's not too far from Summertown, where I dropped Lizzie, or Lyra, this morning.	并列句
And that through the doorway is another world, one with no grownups in it.	并列句
Right so far?	并列句
He has reason to be.	陈述句
If he's where I think he is, he's in an old stone tower with angels carved around the doorway.	陈述句
The Torre degli Angeli.	陈述句
Bring it to me, and you can have the alethiometer.	并列句
I shall be sorry to lose it, but I'm a man of my word.	并列句
That's what you have to do: bring me the knife.	陈述句
" EIGHT THE TOWER OF THE ANGELS Will said, "Who is this man who's got the knife?	疑问句
" They were in the Rolls-Royce, driving up through Oxford.	陈述句
Sir Charles sat in the front, half-turned around, and Will and Lyra sat in the back, with Pantalaimon a mouse now, soothed in Lyra's hands.	并列句
"Someone who has no more right to the knife than I have to the alethiometer," said Sir Charles.	陈述句
"Unfortunately for all of us, the alethiometer is in my possession, and the knife is in his.	并列句
" "How do you know about that other world anyway?	疑问句
" "I know many things that you don't.	陈述句
What else would you expect?	疑问句
I am a good deal older and considerably better informed.	并列句
In Cittagazze there's a Guild of learned men, so called, who used to do so all the time.	并列句
" "You en't from this world at all!	陈述句
" said Lyra suddenly.	陈述句
"You're from there, en't you?	疑问句
" And again came that strange nudge at her memory.	并列句
She was almost certain she'd seen him before.	陈述句
"No, I'm not," he said.	陈述句
Will said, "If we've got to get the knife from that man, we need to know more about him.	陈述句
" "Certainly not.	陈述句
It's the one thing keeping the Specters away.	陈述句
It's not going to be easy by any means.	陈述句
" "You don't need to know that now.	陈述句
It doesn't matter.	陈述句
Lyra," Sir Charles said, turning to her, "tell me about your remarkable friend.	陈述句
And as soon as he said it, Will realized that the snake he'd seen concealed in the man's sleeve was a daemon too, and that Sir Charles must come from Lyra's world.	并列句
He was asking about Pantalaimon to put them off the track: so he didn't realize that Will had seen his own daemon.	并列句
file:///C|/Music/Books/Text/Pullman/PULLMAN,%20P.	陈述句
k%20Materials%202%20-%20The%20Subtle%20Knife.	陈述句
htm (80 of 157)7/09/2003 11:42:22 p.	陈述句
Lyra lifted Pantalaimon close to her breast, and he became a black rat, whipping his tail around and around her wrist and glaring at Sir Charles with red eyes.	并列句
"You weren't supposed to see him," she said.	陈述句
"He's my daemon.	陈述句
You think you en't got daemons in this world, but you have.	并列句
" "If the Pharaohs of Egypt were content to be represented by a scarab, so am I," he said.	并列句
"Well, you're from yet another world.	陈述句
How interesting.	陈述句
"The Master of Jordan College in my Oxford gave it to me.	陈述句
And you wouldn't know what to do with it, you stupid, stinky old man; you'd never read it in a hundred years.	并列句
It's just a toy to you.	陈述句
But I need it, and so does Will.	并列句
We'll get it back, don't worry.	陈述句
" "We'll see," said Sir Charles.	陈述句
Shall we let you out here?	疑问句
" "No," said Will, because he could see a police car farther down the road.	陈述句
"You can't come into Ci'gazze because of the Specters, so it doesn't matter if you know where the window is.	并列句
Take us farther up toward the ring road.	陈述句
" "As you wish," said Sir Charles, and the car moved on.	并列句
"When, or if, you get the knife, call my number and Allan will come to pick you up.	并列句
As they got out, Sir Charles lowered his window and said to Will, "By the way, if you can't get the knife, don't bother to return.	并列句
Come to my house without it and I'll call the police.	并列句
I imagine they'll be there at once when I tell them your real name.	陈述句
It is William Parry, isn't it?	疑问句
Yes, I thought so.	陈述句
There's a very good photo of you in today's paper.	陈述句
" And the car pulled away.	并列句
Will was speechless.	陈述句
"It's all right," she said, "he won't tell anyone else.	陈述句
Come on.	陈述句
Will had told her about the snake daemon, and she had stopped still in the street, tormented again by that half-memory.	并列句
Who was the old man?	疑问句
"I didn't want to tell him" Lyra said quietly, "but I saw a man up there last night.	陈述句
He looked down when the kids were making all that noise.	陈述句
" "What did he look like?	疑问句
" "Young, with curly hair.	陈述句
But I saw him for only a moment, at the very top, over those battlements.	并列句
I thought he might be.	陈述句
You remember Angelica and Paolo, and Paolo said they had an older brother, and he'd come into the city as well, and she made Paolo stop telling us, as if it was a secret?	并列句
Well, I thought it might be him.	陈述句
And I reckon all the kids know about it.	并列句
" "Mmm," he said, looking up.	陈述句
"Maybe.	陈述句
Maybe that was why they needed a grown man to go in there.	陈述句
Her daemon was fluttering around her head now, moth-formed in the bright sunlight, whispering anxiously.	陈述句
"Hush," she whispered back, "there en't any choice, Pan.	陈述句
It's our fault.	陈述句
We got to make it right, and file:///C|/Music/Books/Text/Pullman/PULLMAN,%20P.	并列句
k%20Materials%202%20-%20The%20Subtle%20Knife.	陈述句
m.	陈述句
this is the only way.	陈述句
" Will walked off to the right, following the wall of the tower.	陈述句
At the corner a narrow cobbled alley led between it and the next building, and Will went down there too, looking up, getting the measure of the place.	并列句
Lyra followed.	陈述句
Can you look in?	疑问句
" He became a sparrow at once and set off.	并列句
She sighed and took deep breaths like someone rescued from drowning.	并列句
Will frowned, puzzled.	陈述句
"It's hard," she explained, "when your daemon goes away from you.	陈述句
It hurts.	陈述句
" "Sorry.	陈述句
Did you see anything?	疑问句
He was.	陈述句
" "Dancing?	疑问句
I just saw him through an open door.	陈述句
Not clearly.	陈述句
" "Fighting a Specter?	疑问句
" Lyra guessed.	陈述句
But they couldn't guess any better, so they moved on.	并列句
"We'll have to go in the front, then," said Will.	陈述句
He climbed the steps and pushed the door wide.	并列句
Lyra followed close behind.	陈述句
The floor was made of flagstones worn smooth over centuries, and the air inside was cool.	并列句
"He's talking to himself, I reckon.	陈述句
" Will listened hard, and heard it too: a low crooning murmur interrupted occasionally by a harsh laugh or a short cry of anger.	并列句
Will blew out his cheeks and set off to climb the staircase.	并列句
It was made of blackened oak, immense and broad, with steps as worn as the flagstones: far too solid to creak underfoot.	并列句
The light diminished as they climbed, because the only illumination was the small deep-set window on each landing.	陈述句
They climbed up one floor, stopped and listened, climbed the next, and the sound of the man's voice was now mixed with that of halting, rhythmic footsteps.	并列句
It came from a room across the landing, whose door stood ajar.	陈述句
Will tiptoed to it and pushed it open another few inches so he could see.	并列句
The walls were lined with bookshelves containing badly preserved volumes with the bindings crumbling and flaking, or distorted with damp.	并列句
Several of them lay thrown off the shelves, open on the floor or the wide dusty tables, and others had been thrust back higgledy-piggledy.	并列句
In the center of the room, a young man was—dancing.	陈述句
Pantalaimon was right: it looked exactly like that.	陈述句
In that hand was a knife, not a special-looking knife, just a dull blade about eight inches long, and he'd thrust it forward, slice it sideways, feel forward with it, jab up and down, all file:///C|/Music/Books/Text/Pullman/PULLMAN,%20P.	并列句
htm (82 of 157)7/09/2003 11:42:22 p.	陈述句
in the empty air.	陈述句
He moved as if to turn, and Will withdrew.	并列句
He put a finger to his lips and beckoned to Lyra, and led her to the stairs and up to the next floor.	并列句
" she whispered.	陈述句
"Is he thin, with curly hair?	疑问句
Red hair, like Angelica's.	陈述句
He certainly looks mad.	陈述句
Let's look farther up before we speak to him.	陈述句
" She didn't question, but let him lead them up another staircase to the top story.	并列句
It was much lighter up there, because a white-painted flight of steps led up to the roof—or, rather, to a wood-and-glass structure like a little greenhouse.	陈述句
Even at the foot of the steps they could feel the heat it was absorbing.	陈述句
And as they stood there they heard a groan from above.	并列句
They jumped.	陈述句
They'd been sure there was only one man in the tower.	陈述句
Will and Lyra realized as he did so that they'd seized each other's hand, and let go slowly.	并列句
"Better go and see," Will whispered.	并列句
"I'll go first.	陈述句
" "I ought to go first," she whispered back, "seeing it's my fault.	陈述句
" "Seeing it's your fault, you got to do as I say.	陈述句
" She twisted her lip but fell in behind him.	并列句
He climbed up into the sun.	陈述句
The light in the glass structure was blinding.	陈述句
It was as hot as a greenhouse, too, and Will could neither see nor breathe easily.	并列句
He found a door handle and turned it and stepped out quickly, holding his hand up to keep the sun out of his eyes.	并列句
He found himself on a roof of lead, enclosed by the battle-mented parapet.	陈述句
The glass structure was set in the center, and the lead sloped slightly downward all around toward a gutter inside the parapet, with square drainage holes in the stone for rainwater.	并列句
Lying on the lead, in the full sun, was an old man with white hair.	陈述句
His face was bruised and battered, and one eye was closed, and as they saw when they got closer, his hands were tied behind him.	并列句
"We aren't going to hurt you.	陈述句
Did the man with the knife do this?	疑问句
" "Mmm," the old man grunted.	陈述句
"Let's undo the rope.	陈述句
He hasn't tied it very well.	陈述句
They helped the old man to get up and took him over to the shade of the parapet "Who are you?	并列句
"We didn't think there were two people here.	陈述句
" "Giacomo Paradisi," the old man muttered through broken teeth.	陈述句
"I am the bearer.	陈述句
No one else.	陈述句
That young man stole it from me.	陈述句
There are always fools who take risks like that for the sake of the knife.	陈述句
But this one is desperate.	并列句
He is going to kill me.	陈述句
" "No, he en't," Lyra said.	陈述句
"What's the bearer?	疑问句
What's that mean?	疑问句
" "I hold the subtle knife on behalf of the Guild.	陈述句
Where has he gone?	疑问句
"We came up past him.	陈述句
He didn't see us.	陈述句
He won't succeed.	陈述句
Will turned.	陈述句
The young man was climbing up into the little wooden shelter.	陈述句
He hadn't seen them yet, but there was nowhere to hide, and as they stood up he saw the movement and whipped file:///C|/Music/Books/Text/Pullman/PULLMAN,%20P.	并列句
k%20Materials%202%20-%20The%20Subtle%20Knife.	陈述句
around to face them.	陈述句
Immediately Pantalaimon became a bear and reared up on his hind legs.	并列句
His curly red hair was matted, his chin was flecked with spit, and the whites of his eyes showed all around the pupils.	并列句
And he had the knife, and they had no weapons at all.	并列句
The young man sprang forward and slashed at him with the knife—left, right, left, coming closer and closer, making Will back away till he was trapped in the angle where two sides of the tower met.	并列句
Will darted forward suddenly, just as he'd done to the man in his house, and with the same effect: his antagonist tumbled backward unexpectedly, falling over Lyra to crash onto the lead.	并列句
But he did have time to see the knife fly from the man's hand and sink at once into the lead some feet away, point first, with no more resistance than if it had fallen into butter.	并列句
It plunged as far as the hilt and stopped suddenly.	并列句
And the young man twisted over and reached for it at once, but Will flung himself on his back and seized his hair.	并列句
He had learned to fight at school; there had been plenty of occasion for it, once the other children had sensed that there was something the matter with his mother.	陈述句
And he'd learned that the object of a school fight was not to gain points for style but to force your enemy to give in, which meant hurting him more than he was hurting you.	并列句
He knew that you had to be willing to hurt someone else, too, and he'd found out that not many people were, when it came to it; but he knew that he was.	并列句
Will twisted his fingers into the young man's thick, damp hair and wrenched back as hard as he could.	并列句
The man grunted and flung himself sideways, but Will hung on even tighter, and his opponent roared with pain and anger.	并列句
He pushed up and then threw himself backward, crushing Will between himself and the parapet, and that was too much; all the breath left Will's body, and in the shock his hands loosened.	并列句
The man pulled free.	陈述句
Will dropped to his knees in the gutter, winded badly, but he couldn't stay there.	并列句
He tried to stand —and in doing so, he thrust his foot through one of the drainage holes.	陈述句
His fingers scraped desperately on the warm lead, and for a horrible second he thought he would slide off the roof to the ground.	并列句
But nothing happened.	并列句
He pulled his leg back inside the parapet and scrambled to his feet.	并列句
The man had reached his knife again, but he didn't have time to pull it out of the lead before Lyra leaped onto his back, scratching, kicking, biting like a wildcat.	并列句
But she missed the hold on his hair that she was trying for, and he threw her off.	并列句
Lyra had fallen to one side, with Pantalaimon a wildcat now, fur raised, teeth bared, beside her.	陈述句
Will faced the man directly and saw him clearly for the first time.	并列句
There was no doubt: he was Angelica's brother, all right, and he was vicious.	并列句
He'd seized the rope when Lyra dropped it, and now he wrapped it around his left hand for protection against the knife.	并列句
k%20Materials%202%20-%20The%20Subtle%20Knife.	陈述句
m.	陈述句
antagonist had to squint and blink.	并列句
The man went down with a loud grunt and twisted away awkwardly.	并列句
If he could get him to the top of the stairs.	陈述句
This time the man fell more heavily, and his right hand with the knife in it came down on the lead at Will's feet.	并列句
Will stamped on it at once, hard, crushing the man's fingers between the hilt and the lead, and then wrapped the rope more tightly around his hand and stamped a second time.	并列句
The man yelled and let go of the knife.	并列句
At once Will kicked it away, his shoe connecting with the hilt, luckily for him, and it spun across the lead and came to rest in the gutter just beside a drainage hole.	并列句
The rope had come loose around his hand once more, and there seemed to be a surprising amount of blood from somewhere sprinkled on the lead and on his own shoes.	并列句
At the moment when the man was off balance, he threw himself at him, crashing as hard as he could into the man's midriff.	陈述句
And Will darted back to the gutter, and picked up the knife, and the fight was over.	并列句
"Ah," said Will, sitting down.	陈述句
"Ah.	陈述句
" Something was badly wrong, and he hadn't noticed it.	并列句
He dropped the knife and hugged his left hand to himself.	并列句
The tangle of rope was sodden with blood, and when he pulled it away— "Your fingers!	并列句
" Lyra breathed.	陈述句
"Oh, Will—" His little finger and the finger next to it fell away with the rope.	并列句
His head swam.	陈述句
The pain wasn't that great, and a part of his mind registered that with a dull surprise.	并列句
It was like a persistent, deep hammer thud more than the bright, sharp clarity when you cut yourself superficially.	陈述句
Lyra was doing something to his arm.	陈述句
The old man was somewhere close by, but Will couldn't see what he was doing, and meanwhile Lyra was talking to him.	并列句
Look, I'm going to tie this bit of rope around your arm, to stop the bleeding, cause I can't tie it around where your fingers were, there's nothing to tie it to.	陈述句
" He let her do it, then looked around for his fingers.	陈述句
"Hey," she said, "stop that.	陈述句
Get up now.	陈述句
Mr.	陈述句
Paradisi's got some medicine, some salve, I dunno what it is.	陈述句
You got to come downstairs.	陈述句
He's gone now.	陈述句
Come on, Will— come on—" file:///C|/Music/Books/Text/Pullman/PULLMAN,%20P.	陈述句
k%20Materials%202%20-%20The%20Subtle%20Knife.	陈述句
m.	陈述句
Nagging and cajoling, she urged him down the steps, and they picked their way through the shattered glass and splintered wood and into a small, cool room off the landing.	并列句
Under the dirty window was a stone sink, where the old man was pouring something with a shaky hand from a large bottle into a smaller one.	陈述句
Will sat down and took the glass.	并列句
Lyra took the glass to stop it from falling as Will gasped.	陈述句
"What is it?	疑问句
" "Plum brandy.	陈述句
" Will sipped it more cautiously.	陈述句
"Can you heal him?	疑问句
" said Lyra, her voice desperate.	陈述句
"Oh, yes, we have medicines for everything.	陈述句
"Drink again," the old man said.	陈述句
Then there was a coolness for a moment, and it hurt again.	并列句
"This is precious ointment," the old man said.	陈述句
" It was a dusty, battered tube of ordinary antiseptic cream, such as Will could have bought in any pharmacy in his world.	陈述句
And while the man was dressing the wound, Lyra felt Pan-talaimon calling to her silently to come and look out the window.	并列句
He was a kestrel perching on the open window frame, and his eyes had caught a movement below.	并列句
Then he turned away and began to run his hands along the stones in the wall, looking closely at each one, counting them, feeling the edges, hunching up his shoulders as if to ward off something behind him, shaking his head.	并列句
Angelica was desperate, and so was little Paolo behind her, and they reached their brother and seized his arms and tried to pull him away from whatever was troubling him.	并列句
And Lyra realized with a jolt of sickness what was happening: the man was being attacked by Specters.	并列句
Angelica knew it, though she couldn't see them, of course, and little Paolo was crying and striking at the empty air to try and drive them off; but it didn't help, and Tullio was lost.	并列句
Angelica clung to him, shaking and shaking his arm, but nothing woke him; and Paolo was crying his brother's name over and over as if that would bring him back.	并列句
Then Angelica seemed to feel Lyra watching her, and she looked up.	并列句
Lyra felt a jolt as if the girl had struck her a physical blow, because the hatred in her eyes was so intense, and then Paolo saw her looking and looked up too, and his little boy's voice cried, "We'll kill you!	并列句
You done this to Tullio!	陈述句
We gonna kill you, all right!	陈述句
" The two children turned and ran, leaving their stricken brother; and Lyra, frightened and guilty, withdrew inside the room again and shut the window.	并列句
Gia-como Paradisi file:///C|/Music/Books/Text/Pullman/PULLMAN,%20P.	陈述句
k%20Materials%202%20-%20The%20Subtle%20Knife.	陈述句
htm (86 of 157)7/09/2003 11:42:22 p.	陈述句
m.	陈述句
was dabbing more ointment on the wounds, and Lyra tried to put what she'd seen out of her mind, and focused on Will.	并列句
"You got to tie something around his arm," Lyra said, "to stop the bleeding.	陈述句
" "Yes, yes, I know," said the old man, but sadly.	并列句
Will kept his eyes averted while they did up a bandage, and drank the plum brandy sip by sip.	并列句
Presently he felt soothed and distant, though his hand was hurting abominably.	并列句
" "I don't want it," said Will.	陈述句
" "I thought you said you was," said Lyra.	陈述句
"My time is over," he said.	陈述句
You don't believe me?	疑问句
Look!	陈述句
" He held up his own left hand.	陈述句
"Yes," he said, "me too.	陈述句
He struggled to find words.	陈述句
"But I—we only came here because—there was a man who stole something of Lyra's, and he wanted the knife, and he said if we brought him that, then he'd—" "I know that man.	并列句
He won't give you anything, make no mistake.	陈述句
He wants the knife, and once he has it, he will betray you.	并列句
The knife is yours by right.	陈述句
" With a heavy reluctance, Will turned to the knife itself.	陈述句
It was an ordinary-looking dagger, with a double-sided blade of dull metal about eight inches long, a short crosspiece of the same metal, and a handle of rosewood.	并列句
As he looked at it more closely, he saw that the rosewood was inlaid with golden wires, forming a design he didn't recognize till he turned the knife around and saw an angel, with wings folded.	并列句
On the other side was a different angel, with wings upraised.	陈述句
The wires stood out a little from the surface, giving a firm grip, and as he picked it up he felt that it was light in his hand and strong and beautifully balanced, and that the blade was not dull after all.	并列句
If there was such a thing as shadow-colored, it was the blade of the subtle knife.	陈述句
But the edges were different.	并列句
In fact, the two edges differed from each other.	陈述句
One was clear bright steel, merging a little way back into those subtle shadow-colors, but steel of an incomparable sharpness.	并列句
Will's eye shrank back from looking at it, so sharp did it seem.	并列句
The other edge was just as keen, but silvery in color, and Lyra, who was looking at it over Will's shoulder, said: "I seen that color before!	并列句
That's the same as the blade they was going to cut me and Pan apart with—that's just the same!	并列句
" "This edge," said Giacomo Paradisi, touching the steel with the handle of a spoon, "will cut through any material in the world.	陈述句
Look.	陈述句
Will, holding the knife, felt only the slightest resistance as the tip of the spoon's handle fell to the table, cut clean off.	陈述句
With it you can cut an opening out of file:///C|/Music/Books/Text/Pullman/PULLMAN,%20P.	陈述句
k%20Materials%202%20-%20The%20Subtle%20Knife.	陈述句
htm (87 of 157)7/09/2003 11:42:22 p.	陈述句
m.	陈述句
this world altogether.	陈述句
Try it now.	陈述句
Do as I say—you are the bearer.	陈述句
No one can teach you but me, and I have not much time left.	并列句
Stand up and listen.	并列句
" Will pushed his chair back and stood, holding the knife loosely.	并列句
He felt dizzy, sick, rebellious.	陈述句
"I don't want—" he began, but Giacomo Paradisi shook his head.	并列句
"Be silent!	陈述句
You don't want—you don't want.	陈述句
you have no choice!	陈述句
Listen to me, because time is short.	陈述句
Now hold the knife out ahead of you—like that.	陈述句
It's not only the knife that has to cut, it's your own mind.	陈述句
Concentrate, boy.	陈述句
Focus your mind.	陈述句
Don't think about your wound.	陈述句
It will heal.	陈述句
Think about the knife tip.	陈述句
That is where you are.	陈述句
Now feel with it, very gently.	陈述句
You're looking for a gap so small you could never see it with your eyes, but the knife tip will find it, if you put your mind there.	并列句
But his head was buzzing, and his left hand throbbed horribly, and he saw his two fingers again, lying on the roof, and then he thought of his mother, his poor mother.	并列句
What would she say?	疑问句
How would she comfort him?	疑问句
And he put the knife down on the table and crouched low, hugging his wounded hand, and cried.	并列句
The sobs racked his throat and his chest and the tears dazzled him, and he should be crying for her, the poor frightened unhappy dear beloved—he'd left her, he'd left her.	并列句
He was desolate.	陈述句
But then he felt the strangest thing, and brushed the back of his right wrist across his eyes to find Pan-talaimon's head on his knee.	并列句
The daemon, in the form of a wolfhound, was gazing up at him with melting, sorrowing eyes, and then he gently licked Will's wounded hand again and again, and laid his head on Will's knee once more.	并列句
Will had no idea of the taboo in Lyra's world preventing one person from touching another's daemon, and if he hadn't touched Pantalaimon before, it was politeness that had held him back and not knowledge.	并列句
Lyra, in fact, was breathtaken.	陈述句
Her daemon had done it on his own initiative, and now he withdrew and fluttered to her shoulder as the smallest of moths.	并列句
He'd seen dasmons before, somehow; he'd traveled to other worlds too.	陈述句
Pantalaimon's gesture had worked.	陈述句
Will swallowed hard and stood up again, wiping the tears out of his eyes.	并列句
"All right," he said, "I'll try again.	陈述句
Tell me what to do.	陈述句
Malone, and so did the poet Keats, whoever he was, and all of them knew you couldn't get it by straining toward it But she held her tongue and clasped her hands.	并列句
"Stop," said the old man gently.	陈述句
"Relax.	陈述句
Don't push.	陈述句
Loosen your fingers.	陈述句
Let your mind wander down your arm to your wrist and then into the handle, and out along the blade.	并列句
No hurry, go gently, don't force it.	陈述句
Just wander.	陈述句
Then along to the very tip, where the edge is sharpest of all.	陈述句
You become the tip of the knife.	陈述句
Just do that now.	陈述句
Go there and feel that, and then come back.	并列句
" Will tried again.	陈述句
Lyra could see the intensity in his body, saw his jaw working, and then saw an authority descend over it, calming and relaxing and clarifying.	并列句
The authority was Will's own—or his daemon's, perhaps.	陈述句
How he must miss having a daemon!	陈述句
The loneliness of it.	陈述句
No wonder he'd cried; and it was right of Pantalaimon to do what he'd done, though it had felt so strange to her.	并列句
She reached up to her beloved daemon, and, ermine-shaped, he flowed onto her lap.	陈述句
No less intense, he was focused differently now, and the knife looked different too.	并列句
k%20Materials%202%20-%20The%20Subtle%20Knife.	陈述句
htm (88 of 157)7/09/2003 11:42:22 p.	陈述句
m.	陈述句
blade, or perhaps it was the way it sat so naturally in Will's hand, but the little movements he was making with the tip now looked purposeful instead of random.	并列句
"What's this?	疑问句
" he said hoarsely.	陈述句
"Yes.	陈述句
Don't force it.	陈述句
" Lyra imagined she could see Will's soul flowing back along the blade to his hand, and up his arm to his heart.	并列句
He stood back, dropped his hand, blinked.	陈述句
"The knife was just slipping through the air at first, and then I felt it.	并列句
" "Good.	陈述句
Now do it again.	陈述句
This time, when you feel it, slide me knife in and along.	并列句
Make a cut.	陈述句
Don't be surprised.	陈述句
" Will had to crouch and take two or three deep breaths and put his left hand under his other arm before he could go on.	并列句
But he was intent on it; he stood up again after a couple of seconds, the knife held forward already.	并列句
This time it was easier.	陈述句
Having felt it once, he knew what to search for again, and he felt the curious little snag after less than a minute.	并列句
It was like delicately searching out the gap between one stitch and the next with the point of a scalpel.	并列句
He touched, withdrew, touched again to make sure, and then did as the old man had said, and cut sideways with the silver edge.	并列句
It was a good thing that Giacomo Paradisi had reminded him not to be surprised.	陈述句
And because they were high in the tower, they were high above north Oxford.	并列句
Over a cemetery, in fact, looking back toward the city.	陈述句
There were the hornbeam trees a little way ahead of them; there were houses, trees, roads, and in the distance the towers and spires of the city.	并列句
If they hadn't already seen the first window, they would have thought this was some kind of optical trick.	陈述句
Except that it wasn't only optical; air was coming through it, and they could smell the traffic fumes, which didn't exist in the world of Cit-tagazze.	并列句
Pantalaimon changed into a swallow and flew through, delighting hi the open air, and then snapped up an insect before darting back through to Lyra's shoulder again.	并列句
Then he said, "So much for opening.	陈述句
Now you must learn to close.	陈述句
" Lyra stood back to give Will room, and the old man came to stand beside him.	并列句
"For this you need your fingers," he said.	陈述句
"One hand will do.	陈述句
Feel for the edge as you felt with the knife to begin with.	陈述句
Touch very delicately; feel again and again till you find the edge.	并列句
Then you pinch it together.	陈述句
That's all.	陈述句
Try.	陈述句
" But Will was trembling.	并列句
She stood up and took his right arm and said, "Listen, Will, sit down, I'll tell you how to do it.	并列句
Just sit down for a minute, 'cause your hand hurts and it's taking your mind off it.	并列句
It's bound to.	陈述句
It'll ease off in a little while.	陈述句
" The old man raised both his hands and then changed his mind, shrugged, and sat down again.	并列句
" he said.	陈述句
He was bloodstained, trembling, wild-eyed.	陈述句
k%20Materials%202%20-%20The%20Subtle%20Knife.	陈述句
htm (89 of 157)7/09/2003 11:42:22 p.	陈述句
m.	陈述句
jaw, tapping his foot, breathing fast.	陈述句
"You en't wrong at all.	陈述句
You're doing it right, but your hand won't let you concentrate on it.	并列句
I don't know an easy way of getting around that, except maybe if you didn't try to shut it out.	陈述句
" "What d'you mean?	疑问句
" "Well, you're trying to do two things with your mind, both at once.	陈述句
You're trying to ignore the pain and close that window.	并列句
I remember when I was reading the alethiometer once when I was frightened, and maybe I was used to it by that time, I don't know, but I was still frightened all the time I was reading it.	并列句
" His eyes closed briefly.	陈述句
His breathing slowed a little.	陈述句
"I'll try that.	陈述句
" And this time it was much easier.	并列句
It was the easiest thing in the world.	陈述句
He felt a brief, calm exhilaration, and then the window was gone.	并列句
The old man handed him a leather sheath, backed with stiff horn, with buckles to hold the knife hi place, because the slightest sideways movement of the blade would have cut through the thickest leather.	陈述句
Will slid the knife into it and buckled it as tight as he could with his clumsy hand.	并列句
"This should be a solemn occasion," Giacomo Paradisi said.	陈述句
The Specters are our fault, our fault alone.	陈述句
They came because my predecessors, alchemists, philosophers, men of learning, were making an inquiry into die deepest nature of things.	陈述句
Something that binds?	疑问句
"Well, this was a mercantile city.	陈述句
We thought we knew about bonds.	陈述句
We thought a bond was something negotiable, something that could be bought and sold and exchanged and converted.	并列句
But about these bonds, we were wrong.	并列句
We undid them, and we let the Specters in.	并列句
Are there other windows in the world?	疑问句
What matters is that they are here, and they have destroyed us.	并列句
Yes, a few, because sometimes a knife bearer might be careless or forgetful, without time to stop and close as he should.	并列句
And the window you came through, under the hornbeam trees.	并列句
I left that open myself, in a moment of unforgivable foolishness.	陈述句
There is a man I am afraid of, and I thought to tempt him through and into the city, where he would fall victim to the Specters.	并列句
But I think that he is too clever for a trick like that.	并列句
He wants the knife.	陈述句
"Well," the old man finished, spreading his hands, "all I can do is hand the knife on to you and show you how to use it, which I have done, and tell you what the rules of the Guild used to be, before it decayed.	并列句
First, never open without closing.	陈述句
Second, never let anyone else use the knife.	陈述句
It is yours alone.	陈述句
Third, never use it for a base purpose.	陈述句
Fourth, keep it secret.	陈述句
You are the bearer.	陈述句
You should not be a child.	陈述句
But our world is crumbling, and the mark of the bearer is unmistakable.	并列句
I don't even know your name.	陈述句
I shall die very soon, because file:///C|/Music/Books/Text/Pullman/PULLMAN,%20P.	陈述句
m.	陈述句
I know where there are poisonous drugs, and I don't intend to wait for the Specters to come in, as they will once the knife has left.	并列句
Go.	陈述句
Paradisi—" Lyra began.	陈述句
But he shook his head and went on: "There is no time.	并列句
You have come here for a purpose, and maybe you don't know what that purpose is, but the angels do who brought you here.	并列句
Go.	陈述句
You are brave, and your friend is clever.	并列句
Go.	陈述句
" "You en't really going to poison yourself?	疑问句
"Come on," said Will.	陈述句
"And what did you mean about angels?	疑问句
" she went on.	陈述句
Will tugged her arm.	陈述句
"Come on," he said again.	陈述句
"We got to go.	陈述句
Thank you, Mr.	陈述句
" He held out his bloodstained, dusty right hand, and the old man shook it gently.	并列句
He shook Lyra's hand, too, and nodded to Pantalaimon, who lowered his ermine head in acknowledgment.	并列句
Clutching the knife in its leather sheath, Will led the way down the broad dark stairs and out of the tower.	并列句
The sunlight was hot in the little square, and the silence was profound.	并列句
Lyra looked all around, with immense caution, but the street was empty.	并列句
She led him away from the street where she'd seen the children, where the stricken Tullio was standing, as still as death.	陈述句
"I wish—" Lyra said when they had nearly left the square, stopping to look back up.	陈述句
"It's horrible, thinking of.	陈述句
and his poor teeth was all broken, and he could hardly see out his eye.	并列句
He's just going to swallow some poison and die now, and I wish—" She was on the verge of tears.	并列句
"It won't hurt him.	陈述句
He'll just go to sleep.	陈述句
" she said.	陈述句
"What we going to do?	疑问句
" "Well," he said, "that's easy.	陈述句
That's what we're going to do.	陈述句
It was clear that Will couldn't go everywhere covered in blood, and the time of feeling guilty about taking things from shops was over; so he gathered a complete set of new clothes and shoes, and Lyra, demanding to help, and watching in every direction for the other children, carried them back to the cafe.	并列句
Lyra put some water on to boil, and Will took it up to the bathroom and stripped to wash from head to foot.	并列句
The pain was dull and unrelenting, but at least the cuts were clean, and having seen what the knife could do, he knew that no cuts could be cleaner; but the stumps where his fingers had been were bleeding freely.	并列句
When he looked at them he felt sick, and his heart beat faster, file:///C|/Music/Books/Text/Pullman/PULLMAN,%20P.	并列句
k%20Materials%202%20-%20The%20Subtle%20Knife.	陈述句
htm (91 of 157)7/09/2003 11:42:22 p.	陈述句
He sat on the edge of the bath and closed his eyes and breathed deeply several times.	并列句
Presently he felt calmer and set himself to washing.	并列句
"I don't care how tight you make it as long as it stops the bleeding.	陈述句
He gritted his teeth, but he couldn't help the tears.	并列句
He brushed them away without a word, and she said nothing.	并列句
When she'd finished, he said, "Thank you.	陈述句
I want you to take something in your rucksack for me, in case we can't come back here.	陈述句
It's only letters.	陈述句
You can read them if you want.	陈述句
" He went to the bedroom, took out the green leather writing case, and handed her the sheets of airmail paper.	并列句
"I won't read them unless—" "I don't mind.	陈述句
On the Cittagazze side, they were in a grassy park surrounding a classical villa that gleamed white in the moonlight.	陈述句
They'd taken a long time to get to Sir Charles's house, moving mainly in Cittagazze, with frequent stops to cut through and check their position in Will's world, closing the windows as soon as they knew where they were.	并列句
Not with them but not far behind came the tabby cat.	并列句
She had slept since they'd rescued her from the stone-throwing children, and now that she was awake again she was reluctant to leave them, as if she thought that wherever they were, she was safe.	并列句
Will was far from sure about that, but he had enough on his mind without the cat, and he ignored her.	并列句
All the time he was growing more familiar with the knife, more certain in his command of it; but his wound was hurting worse than before, with a deep, unceasing throb, and the bandage Lyra had freshly tied after he woke up was already soaked.	并列句
He cut a window in the air not far from the white-gleaming villa, and they came through to the quiet lane in Headington to work out exactly how to get to the study where Sir Charles had put the alethiometer.	并列句
There were two floodlights illuminating his garden, and lights were on in the front windows of the house, though not in the study.	并列句
Only moonlight lit this side, and the study window was dark.	并列句
The lane ran down through trees to another road at the far end, and it wasn't lighted.	并列句
However, it was no barrier to the subtle knife.	陈述句
Lyra laid them one by one on the grass, and then they were through, and moving among the bushes.	并列句
Once they had a clear sight of the side of the house, with the creeper-shaded window of the study facing them across the smooth lawn, Will said quietly, "I'm going to cut through into Ci'gazze here, file:///C|/Music/Books/Text/Pullman/PULLMAN,%20P.	陈述句
k%20Materials%202%20-%20The%20Subtle%20Knife.	陈述句
m.	陈述句
and leave the window open, and move in Ci'gazze to where I think the study is, and then cut back through to this world.	并列句
Then I'll take the alethiometer out of that cabinet thing and I'll close that window and then I'll come back to this one.	并列句
As soon as you hear me call you, you come through this window into Ci'gazze and then I'll close it up again.	并列句
All right?	疑问句
" "Yeah," she whispered.	陈述句
"Both me and Pan'11 look out.	并列句
His wide pale eyes took in every movement.	陈述句
Will stood back and held out the knife, searching, touching the air with the most delicate movements, until after a minute or so he found a point at which he could cut.	并列句
Pantalaimon was perched on a branch above her head, turning this way and that, silent.	并列句
She could hear traffic from Headington behind her, and the quiet footsteps of someone going along the road at the end of the lane, and even the weightless movement of insects among the twigs and leaves at her feet.	并列句
Where was Will now?	疑问句
She strained to look through the window of the study, but it was just a dark mullioned square overhung with creeper.	并列句
Sir Charles had sat inside it on the window seat only that morning, and crossed his legs, and arranged the creases in his trousers.	并列句
Where was the cabinet in relation to the window?	疑问句
Would Will get inside without disturbing anyone in the house?	疑问句
Lyra could hear her heart beating, too.	陈述句
Then Pantalaimon made a soft noise, and at the same moment a different sound came from the front of the house, to Lyra's left.	并列句
She couldn't see the front, but she could see a light sweeping across the trees, and she heard a deep crunching sound: the sound of tires on gravel, she guessed.	并列句
She hadn't heard the car's engine at all.	陈述句
She looked for Pantalaimon, and he was already gliding ahead silently, as far as he could go from her.	并列句
He turned in the darkness and swooped back to settle on her fist.	并列句
"Sir Charles is coming back," he whispered.	陈述句
"And there's someone with him.	陈述句
" He took off again, and this time Lyra followed, tiptoeing over the soft earth with the utmost care, crouching down behind the bushes, finally going on hands and knees to look between the leaves of a laurel.	并列句
Sir Charles stood waiting, smiling, offering his arm to the woman who was getting out, and as she came into view Lyra felt a blow at her heart, the worst blow since she'd escaped from Bolvangar, because Sir Charles's guest was her mother, Mrs.	并列句
Coulter.	陈述句
And he was aware of how exposed he was in this moon-drenched parkland.	并列句
When he thought he was in the right spot, he stopped and held out the knife again, feeling forward carefully.	并列句
Nothing but darkness on the other side: he couldn't see where he was.	并列句
He closed that one, turned through ninety degrees, file:///C|/Music/Books/Text/Pullman/PULLMAN,%20P.	陈述句
k%20Materials%202%20-%20The%20Subtle%20Knife.	陈述句
m.	陈述句
and opened another.	并列句
This time he found fabric in front of him—heavy green velvet: the curtains of the study.	陈述句
He had to close that one too, turn the other way, try again.	陈述句
Time was passing.	陈述句
The third time, he found he could see the whole of the study in the dim light through the open door to the hall.	陈述句
There was the desk, the sofa, the cabinet!	陈述句
And there was no one in the room, and the house was silent.	并列句
It couldn't be better.	陈述句
He cut a window at the right height.	陈述句
The alethiometer wasn't there.	陈述句
There were four of them in the room.	陈述句
He'd counted that morning, and memorized where they were—tall square cases made of dark wood, with glass sides and fronts and velvet-covered shelves, made for displaying valuable objects of porcelain or ivory or gold.	并列句
Could he have simply opened a window in front of the wrong one?	疑问句
But on the top shelf was that bulky instrument with the brass rings: he'd made a point of noticing that.	并列句
And on the shelf in the middle, where Sir Charles had placed the alethiometer, there was a space.	并列句
This was the right cabinet, and the alethiometer wasn't there.	并列句
Will stepped back a moment and took a deep breath.	并列句
Opening windows here and there at random would take all night.	并列句
His hand was throbbing brutally by this time, and the bandage was trailing loose.	并列句
Hearing nothing, he stood up slowly and looked around the room.	并列句
The door to the hall was half-open, and the light that came through was quite enough to see by.	并列句
The cabinets, the bookshelves, the pictures were all there, as they had been that morning, undisturbed.	陈述句
Nor was it on the desk among the neatly piled books and papers, nor on the mantelpiece among the invitation cards to this opening or that reception, nor on the cushioned window seat, nor on the octagonal table behind the door.	并列句
It was so quiet that he half-thought he was imagining it, but he stood stock-still, straining to listen.	并列句
Then he heard the front door open.	陈述句
He went at once to the sofa again, and crouched behind it, next to the window that opened onto the moon-silvered grass in Cittagazze.	并列句
He was just in time to wave and put his finger to his lips, and she slowed, realizing that he was aware Sir Charles had returned.	并列句
"I haven't got it," he whispered when she came up.	陈述句
He's probably got it with him.	陈述句
I'm going to listen and see if he puts it back.	并列句
Stay here.	陈述句
k%20Materials%202%20-%20The%20Subtle%20Knife.	陈述句
m.	陈述句
"No!	陈述句
It's worse!	陈述句
" she said, and she was nearly in a genuine panic.	并列句
"She's with him—Mrs.	陈述句
Coulter—my mother!	陈述句
I dunno how she got here, but if she sees me, I'm dead, Will, I'm lost— and I know who he is now!	并列句
Will, he's called Lord Boreal!	陈述句
I seen him at Mrs.	陈述句
Coulter's cocktail party, when I ran away!	陈述句
And he must have known who I was, all the time.	并列句
" She mastered herself, and swallowed hard, and shook her head.	并列句
I want to stay with you," she whispered.	陈述句
"I want to hear what they say.	陈述句
" "Hush now.	陈述句
" Because he could hear voices in the hall.	陈述句
He held out his hand for her to do it, crouching meanwhile with his head cocked sideways, listening hard.	陈述句
A light came on in the room.	陈述句
He heard Sir Charles speaking to the servant, dismissing him, coming into the study, closing the door.	陈述句
"May I offer you a glass of Tokay?	疑问句
" he said.	陈述句
A woman's voice, low and sweet, replied, "How kind of you, Carlo.	并列句
I haven't tasted Tokay for many years.	陈述句
" There was the faint glug of wine being poured, a tinkle of decanter on glass rim, a murmur of thanks, and then Sir Charles seated himself on the sofa, inches away from Will.	并列句
"Now, suppose you tell me what you want.	陈述句
" "I want to know where you got the alethiometer.	陈述句
" "Because Lyra had it, and I want to find her.	并列句
" "I can't imagine why you would.	陈述句
No one could do it by accident.	陈述句
" "Where is she?	疑问句
' "I'll tell you, I promise.	陈述句
But you must tell me something first.	并列句
" "If I can," she said, in a different tone that Will thought might be a warning.	陈述句
He longed to know what she looked like, because Lyra had never described her, and the face that went with this voice must be remarkable.	并列句
"What do you want to know?	疑问句
" There was a silence then, as if the woman were calculating what to say.	陈述句
Will looked back through the window at Lyra, and saw her face, moonlit and wide-eyed with fear, biting her lip to keep silent and straining to hear, as he was.	并列句
Finally Mrs.	陈述句
" "How medieval.	陈述句
However, he seems to have some very modern powers.	陈述句
" "He found a way of blasting open the barrier between our world and others.	并列句
It caused profound disturbances to the earth's magnetic field, and that must resonate in this world too.	并列句
Carlo, I think you should answer some questions of mine.	陈述句
What is this world?	疑问句
" file:///C|/Music/Books/Text/Pullman/PULLMAN,%20P.	陈述句
m.	陈述句
"It is one of millions.	陈述句
There are openings between them, but they're not easily found.	并列句
I know a dozen or so, but the places they open into have shifted, and that must be due to what Asriel's done.	并列句
It seems that we can now pass directly from this world into our own, and probably into many others too.	并列句
When I looked through one of the doorways earlier today, you can imagine how surprised I was to find it opening into our world, and what's more, to find you nearby.	并列句
Providence, dear lady!	陈述句
The change meant that I could bring you here directly, without the risk of going through Cittagazze.	陈述句
" "Cittagazze?	疑问句
What is that?	疑问句
" "Previously, all the doorways opened into one world, which was a sort of crossroads.	陈述句
That is the world of Cittagazze.	陈述句
" "Why is it dangerous?	疑问句
" "Dangerous for adults.	陈述句
Children can go there freely.	陈述句
I must know about this, Carlo," said the woman, and Will could hear her passionate impatience.	并列句
"This is at the heart of everything, this difference between children and adults!	并列句
It contains the whole mystery of Dust!	陈述句
This is why I must find the child.	陈述句
And the witches have a name for her—I nearly had it, so nearly, from a witch in person, but she died too quickly.	并列句
I must find the child.	陈述句
She has the answer, somehow, and I must have it.	并列句
This instrument will bring her to me—never fear.	陈述句
And once she's given me what I want, you can have her.	并列句
But tell me about your curious bodyguards, Marisa.	并列句
I've never seen soldiers like that.	陈述句
Who are they?	疑问句
" "Men, that's all.	陈述句
But.	陈述句
They have no daemons, so they have no fear and no imagination and no free will, and they'll fight til] they're torn apart.	并列句
" "No daemons.	陈述句
I wonder if I might suggest a little experiment, if you can spare one of them?	疑问句
I'd like to see whether the Specters are interested in them.	陈述句
" "Specters?	疑问句
What are they?	疑问句
" "I'll explain later, my dear.	陈述句
They are the reason adults can't go into that world.	陈述句
But if they're no more interested in your bodyguards than they are in children, we might be able to travel in Cittagazze after all.	并列句
Dust—children—Specters— daemons—intercision.	陈述句
Yes, it might very well work.	陈述句
" "I want to know everything," she said, over the sound of wine being poured.	陈述句
"And I'll hold you to that.	陈述句
Now tell me: What are you doing in this world?	疑问句
" "I found my way here a long time ago," said Sir Charles.	陈述句
I've made myself very comfortable, as you can see.	陈述句
Being part of the Council of State at home made it easy for me to see where the power lay here.	陈述句
"As a matter of fact, I became a spy, though I never told my masters all I knew.	陈述句
And although that threat has receded, there are still listening posts and machines trained in that direction, and I'm still in touch with those who run the spies.	并列句
" Mrs.	陈述句
Coulter sipped her Tokay.	陈述句
"And I heard recently about a profound disturbance in the earth's magnetic field," Sir Charles continued.	陈述句
'The security services are alarmed.	陈述句
Every nation that does research into fundamental physics—what we call experimental theology—is turning to its scientists urgently to discover what's going on.	陈述句
Because they know that something is happening.	陈述句
k%20Materials%202%20-%20The%20Subtle%20Knife.	陈述句
There is some research being done into Dust.	陈述句
Oh, yes, they know it here as well.	陈述句
There is a team in this very city working on it.	陈述句
And another thing: There was a man who disappeared ten or twelve years ago, in the north, and the security services think he was in possession of some knowledge they badly need— specifically, the location of a doorway between the worlds, such as the one you came through earlier today.	并列句
When this new disturbance began, they set out to look for this man.	陈述句
"And naturally, Marisa, I myself am curious.	陈述句
And I am keen to add to my knowledge.	并列句
" Will sat frozen, with his heart thudding so hard he was afraid the adults would hear it.	并列句
There was a shadow moving across the floor, or that part of it he could see beyond the end of the sofa and past the legs of the little octagonal table.	并列句
But neither Sir Charles nor the woman was moving.	并列句
The only light in the room was a standard lamp beside the fireplace, so the shadow was clear and definite, but it never stopped long enough for Will to make out what it was.	并列句
Then two things happened.	陈述句
First, Sir Charles mentioned the alethiometer.	陈述句
The second thing that happened was that the shadow fell still.	陈述句
The creature that was the source of it must have been perched on the back of Mrs.	陈述句
And the moment it stopped, he realized it was the woman's daemon: a crouching monkey, turning its head this way and that, searching for something.	并列句
Will heard an intake of breath from Lyra behind him as she saw it too.	陈述句
He turned silently and whispered, "Go back to the other window, and come through into his garden.	并列句
Find some stones and throw them at the study so they look away for a moment, and then I can get the alethiometer.	并列句
Then run back to the other window and wait for me.	并列句
" She nodded, then turned and ran away silently over the grass.	并列句
The woman was saying, ".	陈述句
the Master of Jordan College is a foolish old man.	陈述句
Why he gave it to her I can't imagine; you need several years of intensive study to make any sense of it at all.	陈述句
And now you owe me some information, Carlo.	并列句
And where is the child?	并列句
" "I saw her using it in a museum in the city.	陈述句
I recognized her, of course, having seen her at your cocktail party all that time ago, and I realized she must have found a doorway.	并列句
And then I realized that I could use it for a purpose of my own.	并列句
So when I came across her a second time, I stole it.	并列句
" "You're very frank.	陈述句
" "And where is she now?	疑问句
" "She came to see me, which must have taken some nerve, I imagine.	陈述句
" "She doesn't lack nerve.	陈述句
And what are you going to do with it?	并列句
What is this purpose of yours?	疑问句
" "I told her that she could have it back, provided she got something for me—something I couldn't get myself.	陈述句
" "I don't know whether you—" And that was the moment when the first stone smashed into the study window.	并列句
k%20Materials%202%20-%20The%20Subtle%20Knife.	陈述句
htm (97 of 157)7/09/2003 11:42:22 p.	陈述句
It broke with a satisfying crash of glass, and instantly the monkey shadow leaped from the chair back as the adults gasped.	并列句
Will leaned forward and snatched the alethiometer from the little table, thrust it into his pocket, and darted back through the window.	并列句
As soon as he was on the grass in Cittagazze he felt in the air for those elusive edges, calming his mind, breathing slowly, conscious all the time that only feet away there was horrible danger.	陈述句
Then came a screech, not human, not animal, but worse than either, and he knew it was that loathsome monkey.	并列句
By that time he'd gotten most of the window closed, but there was still a small gap at the level of his chest.	并列句
And then he leaped back, because into that gap there came a small furry golden hand with black fingernails, and then a face—a nightmare face.	并列句
The golden monkey's teeth were bared, his eyes glaring, and such a concentrated malevolence blazed from him that Will felt it almost like a spear.	并列句
Another second and he would have been through, and that would have been the end.	并列句
That gave Will the moment he needed to seize the edges of the window and press them shut.	并列句
He ran back to the first window, the one he'd opened into the shrubbery, and looked through.	并列句
The dark leaves of laurels and holly obscured the view, but he reached through and thrust them aside to see the side of the house clearly, with the broken study window sharp in the moonlight.	并列句
As he watched, he saw the monkey leaping around the corner of the house, scampering over the grass with the speed of a cat, and then he saw Sir Charles and the woman following close behind.	并列句
The woman herself was beautiful—Will saw that with shock— lovely in the moonlight, her brilliant dark eyes wide with enchantment, her slender shape light and graceful; but as she snapped her fingers, the monkey stopped at once and leaped up into her arms, and he saw that the sweet-faced woman and the evil monkey were one being.	并列句
But where was Lyra?	并列句
If Lyra was in the shrubbery already, she wouldn't be able to move without making a noise, which would give her away at once.	陈述句
Then both of the adults looked to their left, for the monkey had heard something.	陈述句
The monkey fell on his paws, facing the cat, and the cat arched her back, tail raised high, and stood sideways on, hissing, challenging, spitting.	并列句
The cat reared up, slashing with needle-paws left and right too quickly to be seen, and then Lyra was beside Will, tumbling through the window with Pan-talaimon beside her.	并列句
Coulter's arms, and the cat shot file:///C|/Music/Books/Text/Pullman/PULLMAN,%20P.	并列句
k%20Materials%202%20-%20The%20Subtle%20Knife.	陈述句
htm (98 of 157)7/09/2003 11:42:22 p.	陈述句
m.	陈述句
He fell to his knees on the dewy grass and fumbled for the alethiometer.	并列句
"Here," he said to Lyra.	陈述句
She took it.	陈述句
With shaking hands he slid the knife back into its sheath.	陈述句
Then he lay down trembling in all his limbs and closed his eyes, and felt the moonlight bathing him with silver, and felt Lyra undoing his bandage and tying it up again with delicate, gentle movements.	并列句
"Thank you for what you done, for all of it.	陈述句
" "I hope the cat's all right," he muttered.	陈述句
She's probably gone home now.	陈述句
She'll be all right now.	陈述句
" "You know what I thought?	疑问句
I thought for a second she was your daemon.	陈述句
She done what a good daemon would have done, anyway.	陈述句
We'll go in that big house over there.	陈述句
Come on, I'll make a new bandage, I'll put some coffee on to cook, I'll make some omelette, whatever you want, and we'll sleep.	并列句
We'll be safe now we've got the alethiometer back, you'll see.	陈述句
" She helped him up, and they walked slowly through the garden toward the great white-gleaming house under the moon.	并列句
It was going to be hard to make his way into the interior along the road, that was certain; for in normal times the road was simply a cleared track of frozen earth, and now that even the permafrost was melting, the surface was a swamp of churned mud.	并列句
So Lee put his balloon and equipment into storage and with his dwindling gold hired a boat with a gas engine.	并列句
He bought several tanks of fuel and some stores, and set off up the swollen river.	并列句
Not only was the current swift, but the waters were laden with all kinds of debris: tree trunks, brushwood, drowned animals, and once the bloated corpse of a man.	并列句
He had to pilot carefully and keep the little engine beating hard to make any headway.	并列句
htm (99 of 157)7/09/2003 11:42:22 p.	陈述句
m.	陈述句
in finding the right course among the swift-running streams, even though some of the banks had vanished under the milky-brown floodwaters.	陈述句
The temperature had disturbed the insects, and a cloud of midges made every outline hazy.	并列句
Lee smeared his face and hands with jimsonweed ointment and smoked a succession of pungent cigars, which kept the worst at bay.	并列句
As for Hester, she sat taciturn in the bow, her long ears flat against her skinny back and her eyes narrowed.	并列句
They spoke when they needed to.	陈述句
On the morning of the third day, Lee steered the little craft up a creek that joined the main stream, flowing down from a line of low hills that should have been deep under snow but now were patched and streaked with brown.	并列句
"There was a landing stage here," he said to Hester.	陈述句
"Remember the old seal hunter in Nova Zembla who told us about it?	疑问句
" "I hope they had sense enough to build the village high, then," she said, hopping ashore.	陈述句
He used the gesture universal in the north to signify friendship, and laid his rifle down at his feet.	并列句
An old Siberian Tartar, his eyes almost lost in the wrinkles around them, laid his bow down beside it.	陈述句
"My respects to you and your tribe," Lee said.	并列句
"I have some smokeweed, which is not worthy, but I would be honored to present it to you.	并列句
" The headman nodded in appreciation, and one of his wives received the bundle Lee removed from his pack.	并列句
"I heard tell he was a kinsman of yours by adoption.	陈述句
" "Ah," said the headman, "we have been waiting for you.	陈述句
" The rest of the villagers, gathered in the thin steaming sunlight on the muddy ground in the middle of the houses, couldn't understand the words, but they saw the headman's pleasure.	并列句
Pleasure, and relief, Lee felt Hester think.	并列句
The headman nodded several times.	陈述句
"We have been expecting you," he said again.	陈述句
Is he here?	疑问句
The place was decorated with boar tusks and the antlers of elk and reindeer, but they weren't merely hunting trophies, for they had been hung with dried flowers and carefully plaited sprays of pine, as if for some ritualistic purpose.	并列句
"You must speak to him with respect," the headman said quietly.	陈述句
"He is a shaman.	陈述句
%20Materials%202%20-%20The%20Subtle%20Knife.	陈述句
sick.	陈述句
" Suddenly Lee felt a shiver go down his back, and Hester stiffened in his arms, for they saw that they had been watched all the time.	并列句
It was a daemon, and as Lee watched, she turned her head and delicately took a spray of pine in her powerful beak and drew it across the space like a curtain.	并列句
The headman called out in his own tongue, addressing the man by the name the old seal hunter had told him: Jopari.	陈述句
Standing in the doorway, gaunt, blazing-eyed, was a man dressed in skins and furs.	并列句
The headman bowed three times and withdrew, leaving Lee alone with the shaman-academic he'd come to find.	并列句
"Dr.	陈述句
"My name's Lee Scoresby.	陈述句
I'm from the country of Texas, and I'm an aeronaut by profession.	并列句
You are Dr.	陈述句
"And you're from Texas, you say.	陈述句
The winds have blown you a long way from your homeland, Mr.	陈述句
" "Well, there are strange winds blowing through the world now, sir.	陈述句
" "Indeed.	陈述句
The sun is warm, I think.	陈述句
You'll find a bench inside my hut.	陈述句
If you help me bring it out, we can sit in this agreeable light and talk out here.	并列句
I have some coffee, if you would care to share it.	陈述句
" "Most kind, sir," said Lee, and carried out the wooden bench himself while Grumman went to the stove and poured the scalding drink into two tin cups.	并列句
The Director of the Observatory had been right.	陈述句
When they were seated, Hester narrow-eyed and impassive beside Lee and the great osprey daemon glaring into the full sun, Lee began.	并列句
"You see, Dr.	陈述句
Grumman, it seemed to me, from the way the little girl described it, that Lord Asriel just brandished this severed head packed in ice at the scholars there and frightened them so much with it they didn't look closely.	并列句
And clearly, sir, you have a kind of specialist knowledge of this business.	并列句
I've been hearing about you all along the Arctic seaboard, about how you had your skull pierced, about how your subject of study seems to vary between digging on the ocean bed and gazing at the northern lights, about how you suddenly appeared, like as it might be out of nowhere, about ten, twelve years ago, and that's all mighty interesting.	并列句
But something's drawn me here, Dr.	并列句
I'm concerned about the child.	陈述句
I think she's important, and so do the witches.	并列句
As I said, something's given me the conviction that you can, which is why I'm here.	陈述句
Did I get it wrong, or is that truly what he said?	并列句
And one more question for you, sir: What was that name he called you by?	并列句
" Grumman smiled briefly, and said, "The name he used is my own true name, John Parry.	并列句
And as for what brought you here, I think you'll find it was this.	并列句
" And he opened his hand.	并列句
In the palm lay something that Lee could see but not understand.	并列句
He saw file:///C|/Music/Books/Text/Pullman/PULLMAN,%20.	陈述句
htm (101 of 157)7/09/2003 11:42:22 p.	陈述句
m.	陈述句
He found himself standing.	陈述句
The osprey had moved without Lee's noticing between him and Grumman, defending her man, but Lee wasn't going to attack.	并列句
" "Take it," said Grumman, or Parry.	并列句
"Its work is done.	陈述句
It summoned you.	陈述句
" "But how—" said Lee, lifting the beloved thing from Grumman's palm.	陈述句
"I don't understand how you can have—did you—how did you get this?	疑问句
I ain't seen this thing for forty years.	陈述句
" "I am a shaman.	陈述句
I can do many things you don't understand.	陈述句
Sit down, Mr.	陈述句
Scoresby.	陈述句
Be calm.	陈述句
I'll tell you what you need to know.	陈述句
" Lee sat again, holding the ring, running his fingers over it again and again.	并列句
"Well," he said, "I'm shaken, sir.	陈述句
I think I need to hear what you can tell me.	陈述句
Lord Asriel is not the first by any means to travel between the worlds, though he's the first to open the way so spectacularly.	并列句
In my own world I was a soldier and then an explorer.	并列句
Twelve years ago I was accompanying an expedition to a place in my world that corresponds with your Beringland.	陈述句
In searching for them, I and two others walked through this hole, this doorway, without even seeing it, and left our world altogether.	并列句
"Well, try as we might, we could not find that first doorway again.	陈述句
We'd come through it in a blizzard.	陈述句
You are an old Arctic hand—you know what that means.	陈述句
"So we had no choice but to stay in that new world.	并列句
My two companions died soon afterward, victims of the Specters, as the things are called.	陈述句
"The result was that I found their world an abominable place, and I couldn't wait to leave it.	并列句
Yes, I hadn't known of Sayan Kotor here till I entered yours.	陈述句
People here cannot conceive of worlds where daemons are a silent voice in the mind and no more.	并列句
Can you imagine my astonishment, in turn, at learning that part of my own nature was female, and bird-formed, and beautiful?	并列句
"So with Sayan Kotor beside me, I wandered through the northern lands, and I learned a good deal from the peoples of the Arctic, like my good friends in the village down there.	并列句
What they told me of this world filled some gaps in the knowledge I'd acquired in mine, and I began to see the answer to many mysteries.	并列句
"I made my way to Berlin under the name of Grumman.	陈述句
I told no one about my origins; it was my secret.	陈述句
I presented a thesis to the Academy, and defended it in debate, which is their method.	并列句
%20Materials%202%20-%20The%20Subtle%20Knife.	陈述句
m.	陈述句
was better informed than the Academicians, and I had no difficulty in gaining membership.	并列句
I missed some things about my own world, to be sure.	陈述句
Are you a married man, Mr.	陈述句
No?	疑问句
Well, I was; and I loved my wife dearly, as I loved my son, my only child, a little boy not yet one year old when I wandered out of my world.	并列句
But I might search for a thousand years and never find the way back.	并列句
We were sundered forever.	陈述句
"However, my work absorbed me.	陈述句
I sought other forms of knowledge; I was initiated into the skull cult; I became a shaman.	陈述句
And I have made some useful discoveries.	并列句
I have found a way of making an ointment from bloodmoss, for example, that preserves all the virtues of the fresh plant.	陈述句
"I know a great deal about this world now, Mr.	陈述句
Scoresby.	陈述句
I know, for example, about Dust.	陈述句
It is frightening your theologians to death, but they are the ones who frighten me.	并列句
The greatest in thirty-five thousand years of human history, Mr.	陈述句
Scoresby.	陈述句
"I can't do very much myself.	陈述句
My heart is diseased beyond the powers of anyone in this world to cure it.	陈述句
I have one great effort left in me, perhaps.	陈述句
But I know something Lord Asriel doesn't, something he needs to know if his effort is to succeed.	并列句
"You see, I was intrigued by that haunted world where the Specters fed on human consciousness.	陈述句
I wanted to know what they were, how they had come into being.	陈述句
It had many powers—more than they'd guessed when they made it, far more than they know even now—and somehow, in using it, they had let the Specters into their world.	陈述句
And I know where it is, and I know how to recognize the one who must use it, and I know what he must do in Lord Asriel's cause.	并列句
So I have summoned you here, and you are to fly me northward, into the world Asriel has opened, where I expect to find the bearer of the subtle knife.	并列句
We shall have to be careful and courageous.	并列句
I shall not return, and if you want to see your country again, you'll need all your courage, all your craft, all your luck.	并列句
"That's your task, Mr.	陈述句
That is why you sought me out.	陈述句
"This is the craziest damn idea I ever heard in my life," said Lee.	陈述句
He stood up in his agitation and walked a pace or two this way, a pace or two that, while Hester watched unblinking from the bench.	并列句
Grumman's eyes were half-closed; his daemon sat on his knee, watching Lee warily.	陈述句
"Do you want money?	疑问句
" "Damn, I didn't come here for gold," said Lee hotly.	陈述句
I came here to see if you were alive, like I thought you were.	陈述句
" "I'm glad to hear it.	陈述句
well, she's the reason I set out to help the witches in the first place.	陈述句
You say you brought file:///C|/Music/Books/Text/Pullman/PULLMAN,%20.	陈述句
%20Materials%202%20-%20The%20Subtle%20Knife.	陈述句
m.	陈述句
me here with that Navajo ring.	陈述句
Maybe that's so and maybe it ain't.	并列句
What I know is, I came here because I thought I'd be helping Lyra.	陈述句
I ain't never seen a child like that.	陈述句
Now, I'd heard that you knew of some object, I didn't know what it might be, that confers a protection on anyone who holds it.	陈述句
And from what you say, I think it must be this subtle knife.	并列句
"So this is my price for taking you into the other world, Dr.	陈述句
Grumman: not gold, but that subtle knife.	并列句
And I don't want it for myself; I want it for Lyra.	并列句
You have to swear you'll get her under the protection of that object, and then I'll take you wherever you want to go.	并列句
Scoresby; I swear.	陈述句
Do you trust my oath?	疑问句
" "What will you swear by?	疑问句
" "Name anything you like.	陈述句
" Lee thought and then said, "Swear by whatever it was made you turn down the love of the witch.	并列句
" Grumman's eyes widened, and he said, "You guess well, Mr.	并列句
I'll gladly swear by that.	陈述句
I give you my word that I'll make certain the child Lyra Belacqua is under the protection of the subtle knife.	陈述句
But I warn you: the bearer of that knife has his own task to do, and it may be that his doing it will put her into even greater danger.	并列句
"Maybe so," he said, "but whatever little chance of safety there is, I want her to have it.	陈述句
" "You have my word.	陈述句
And now I must go into the new world, and you must take me.	并列句
" "And the wind?	疑问句
You ain't been too sick to observe the weather, I guess?	疑问句
" "Leave the wind to me.	陈述句
He sat on the bench again and ran his fingers over and over the turquoise ring while Grumman gathered the few goods he needed into a deerskin bag, and then the two of them went back down the forest track to the village.	并列句
The headman spoke at some length.	陈述句
More and more of the villagers came out to touch Grumman's hand, to mutter a few words, and to receive what looked like a blessing in return.	并列句
Lee, meanwhile, was looking at the weather.	陈述句
The sky was clear to the south, and a fresh-scented breeze was just lifting the twigs and stirring the pine tops.	并列句
At the rock where the landing stage had been he lifted Grumman's pack into the boat, and filled the little engine, which fired at once.	并列句
He cast off, and with the shaman in the bow, the boat sped down with the current, darting under the trees and skimming out into the main river so fast that Lee was afraid for Hester, crouching just inside the gunwale.	并列句
But she was a seasoned traveler, he should have known that; why was he so damn jumpy?	并列句
* * * They reached the port at the river's mouth to find every hotel, every lodging house, every private room commandeered by soldiers.	陈述句
Not just any soldiers, either: these were troops of the Imperial Guard of Muscovy, the most ferociously trained and lavishly equipped army in the world, and one sworn to uphold the power of the Magisterium.	并列句
Lee had intended to rest a night before setting off, because Grumman looked in need of it, but there was no chance of finding a room.	并列句
" he said to the boatman when he returned the hired boat.	陈述句
"We don't know.	陈述句
The regiment arrived yesterday and commandeered every billet, every scrap of file:///C|/Music/Books/Text/Pullman/PULLMAN,%20.	并列句
htm (104 of 157)7/09/2003 11:42:22 p.	陈述句
food, and every ship in the town.	并列句
They'd have had this boat, too, if you hadn't taken it.	陈述句
" "D'you know where they're going?	疑问句
" "North," said the boatman.	陈述句
"There's a war going to be fought, by all accounts, the greatest war ever known.	陈述句
" "North, into that new world?	疑问句
" "That's right.	陈述句
You did me a favor taking this boat—the price has already doubled.	陈述句
" There was no sense in resting up now, even if they could find a place.	陈述句
Full of anxiety about his balloon, Lee went at once to the warehouse where he'd left it, with Grumman beside him.	陈述句
The man was keeping pace.	陈述句
He looked sick, but he was tough.	并列句
The warehouse keeper, busy counting out some spare engine parts to a requisitioning sergeant of the Guard, looked up briefly from his clipboard.	陈述句
"Balloon—too bad—requisitioned yesterday," he said.	陈述句
"You can see how it is.	陈述句
I've got no choice.	陈述句
" Hester flicked her ears, and Lee understood what she meant.	并列句
"Have you delivered the balloon yet?	疑问句
" he said.	陈述句
"They're going to collect it this afternoon.	陈述句
" And he showed the warehouseman the ring he'd taken from the finger of the dead Skraeling on Nova Zembla.	并列句
The sergeant, beside him at the counter, stopped what he was doing and saluted at the sight of the Church's token, but for all his discipline he couldn't prevent a flicker of puzzlement passing over his face.	并列句
"So we'll have the balloon right now," said Lee, "and you can set some men to fill it.	陈述句
And I mean at once.	并列句
And that includes food, and water, and ballast.	并列句
" The warehouseman looked at the sergeant, who shrugged, and then hurried away to see to the balloon.	并列句
Lee and Grumman withdrew to the wharf, where the gas tanks were, to supervise the filling and talk quietly.	并列句
"Where did you get that ring?	疑问句
" said Grumman.	陈述句
"Off a dead man's finger.	陈述句
Kinda risky using it, but I couldn't see another way of getting my balloon back.	并列句
You reckon that sergeant suspected anything?	疑问句
" "Of course he did.	陈述句
But he's a disciplined man.	并列句
He won't question the Church.	陈述句
Well, I promised you a wind, Mr.	陈述句
Scoresby; I hope you like it.	陈述句
" The sky was blue overhead now, and the sunlight was bright.	并列句
To the north the fog banks still hung like a mountain range over the sea, but the breeze was pushing them back and back, and Lee was impatient for the air again.	并列句
As the balloon filled and began to swell up beyond the edge of the warehouse roof, Lee checked the basket and stowed all his equipment with particular care; for in the other world, who knew what turbulence they'd meet?	并列句
His instruments, too, he fixed to the framework with close attention, even the compass, whose needle was swinging around the dial quite uselessly.	陈述句
When the gasbag was full and leaning northward in the buffeting breeze, and the whole apparatus straining against the stout ropes anchoring it down, Lee paid the warehouseman with the last of his gold and helped Grumman into the basket.	并列句
But before they could do so, there was an interruption.	并列句
From the alley at the side of the file:///C|/Music/Books/Text/Pullman/PULLMAN,%20.	陈述句
%20Materials%202%20-%20The%20Subtle%20Knife.	陈述句
htm (105 of 157)7/09/2003 11:42:22 p.	陈述句
m.	陈述句
warehouse came the noise of pounding boots, moving at the double, and a shout of command: "Halt!	并列句
Cast off!	陈述句
" Two of the men obeyed, and the balloon lurched up, but the other two had their attention on the soldiers, who were moving quickly around the corner of the building.	并列句
Those two men still held their ropes fast around the bollards, and the balloon lurched sickeningly sideways.	并列句
Lee grabbed at the suspension ring; Grumman was holding it too, and his daemon had her claws tight around it.	并列句
She's going up!	陈述句
Lee had seen this happen once before, and dreaded it.	并列句
But the soldiers had their rifles up already.	并列句
A volley of bullets whistled past the basket, one striking a spark from the suspension ring and making Lee's hands sting with the impact, but none of them did any damage.	并列句
He'd said once to Serafina Pekkala that he didn't care for flying, that it was only a job; but he hadn't meant it.	并列句
Soaring upward, with a fair wind behind and a new world in front—what could be better in this life?	并列句
He let go of the suspension ring and saw that Hester was crouching in her usual corner, eyes half-closed.	并列句
From far below and a long way back came another futile volley of rifle fire.	并列句
The town was receding fast, and the broad sweep of the river's mouth was glittering in the sunlight below them.	并列句
"Well, Dr.	陈述句
Grumman," he said, "I don't know about you, but I feel better hi the air.	并列句
It's so damned easy to do, and if you don't let go at once there's no hope for you.	并列句
" "Thank you, Mr.	陈述句
Scoresby," said the shaman.	陈述句
I would be grateful for those furs; the air is still cold.	陈述句
" ELEVEN THE BELVEDERE In the great white villa in the park Will slept uneasily, plagued with dreams that were filled with anxiety and with sweetness in equal measure, so that he struggled to wake up and yet longed for sleep again.	并列句
When his eyes were fully open, he felt so drowsy that he could scarcely move, and then he sat up to find his bandage loose and his bed crimson.	并列句
He struggled out of bed and made his way through the heavy, dust-filled sunlight and silence of the great house down to the kitchen.	并列句
htm (106 of 157)7/09/2003 11:42:22 p.	陈述句
"Will—" she said at once, her voice full of concern, and she turned from the stove to help him to a chair.	并列句
He felt dizzy.	陈述句
He supposed he'd lost a lot of blood; well, there was no need to suppose, with the evidence all over him.	陈述句
And the wounds were still bleeding.	并列句
"I was just making some coffee," she said.	陈述句
"Do you want that first, or shall I do another bandage?	并列句
And there's eggs in the cold cabinet, but I can't find any baked beans.	并列句
Bandage first.	陈述句
I want to wash.	陈述句
" She ran some hot water, and he stripped to his underpants.	并列句
He was too faint and dizzy to feel embarrassed, but Lyra became embarrassed for Mm and went out.	并列句
He washed as best he could and then dried himself on the tea towels that hung on a line by the stove.	并列句
When she came back, she'd found some clothes for him, just a shirt and canvas trousers and a belt.	并列句
She was badly worried about his hand; not only were the wounds bleeding freely still, but the rest of the hand was swollen and red.	并列句
But he said nothing about it, and neither did she.	并列句
When he'd eaten and drunk, he felt a little better.	并列句
"You better ask the alethiometer what to do next," he said.	陈述句
"Have you asked it anything yet?	疑问句
" "No," she said.	陈述句
"I'm only going to do what you ask, from now on.	陈述句
I thought of doing it last night, but I never did.	并列句
" "Well, you better do it now," he said.	陈述句
"There's as much danger here as there is in my world, now.	陈述句
Then she collected herself and went on.	并列句
"Will, there was something that happened yesterday that I didn't tell you.	陈述句
I should've, but there was just so many other things going on.	并列句
I'm sorry.	陈述句
" And she told him everything she'd seen through the window of the tower while Giacomo Paradisi was dressing Will's wound: Tullio being beset by the Specters, Angelica seeing her at the window and her look of hatred, and Paolo's threat.	并列句
Her little brother said something about what they were all doing.	陈述句
He said, 'He's gonna get—' and she wouldn't let him finish; she smacked him, remember?	并列句
I bet he was going to say Tullio was after the knife, and that's why all the kids came here.	并列句
'Cause if they had the knife, they could do anything, they could even grow up without being afraid of Specters.	陈述句
" "What did it look like, when he was attacked?	疑问句
To her surprise he was sitting forward, his eyes demanding and urgent.	并列句
"He.	陈述句
" She tried to remember exactly.	陈述句
He sort of felt all over them.	陈述句
But he couldn't keep it up.	并列句
Then he was just still," she finished, and seeing Will's expression she said, "Why?	并列句
" "Because.	陈述句
I think maybe they come from my world after all, the Specters.	陈述句
If they make people behave like that, I wouldn't be surprised at all if they came from my world.	陈述句
And when the Guild men opened their first window, if it was into my world, the Specters could have gone through then.	并列句
" "But you don't have Specters in your world!	陈述句
You never heard of them, did you?	疑问句
" "Maybe they're not called Specters.	陈述句
Maybe we call them something else.	陈述句
" file:///C|/Music/Books/Text/Pullman/PULLMAN,%20.	陈述句
%20Materials%202%20-%20The%20Subtle%20Knife.	陈述句
htm (107 of 157)7/09/2003 11:42:22 p.	陈述句
m.	陈述句
Lyra wasn't sure what he meant, but she didn't want to press him.	并列句
His cheeks were red and his eyes were hot.	并列句
"Anyway," she went on, turning away, "the important thing is that Angelica saw me in the window.	陈述句
She'll think it's our fault that her brother was attacked by Specters.	陈述句
I'm sorry, Will.	陈述句
I should've told you earlier.	陈述句
But there was just so many other things.	并列句
" "Well," he said, "I don't suppose it would have made any difference.	陈述句
He was torturing the old man, and once he knew how to use the knife he'd have killed both of us if he could.	并列句
We had to fight him.	陈述句
I mean, he was their brother.	陈述句
" "Yes," he said, "but we can't go back and change what happened.	并列句
" "Yeah, we would," she said.	陈述句
He was calmer now, and his cheeks were pale again.	并列句
Coulter.	陈述句
Maybe if she's got this special bodyguard they were talking about, these soldiers who'd had their daemons cut away, maybe Sir Charles is right and they'll be able to ignore the Specters.	并列句
You know what I think?	疑问句
I think what they eat, the Specters, is people's daemons.	陈述句
" "But children have daemons too.	陈述句
" "Then it must be the difference between children's daemons and grownups'," Will said.	并列句
You told me once that grownups' daemons don't change shape.	陈述句
It must be something to do with that.	陈述句
And if these soldiers of hers haven't got daemons at all, maybe the Specters won't attack them either, like Sir Charles said.	并列句
" "Yeah!	陈述句
" she said.	陈述句
"Could be.	陈述句
And she wouldn't be afraid of Specters anyway.	并列句
She en't afraid of anything.	陈述句
She could command them like she does people and they'd have to obey her, I bet.	并列句
Lord Boreal is strong and clever, but she'll have him doing what she wants in no time.	并列句
Oh, Will, I'm getting scared again, thinking what she might do.	陈述句
I'm going to ask the alethiometer, like you said.	陈述句
" She unfolded the velvet bundle and ran her hands lovingly over the heavy gold.	并列句
"I'm going to ask about your father," she said, "and how we can find him.	陈述句
See, I put the hands to point at—" "No.	陈述句
" Lyra nodded, and turned the hands before laying the alethiometer in her lap and tucking her hair behind her ears to look down and concentrate.	并列句
Then she blinked and looked up.	并列句
"She's safe still," she said.	陈述句
"This friend that's looking after her, she's ever so kind.	并列句
No one knows where your mother is, and the friend won't give her away.	并列句
At this good news he felt himself relax, and as a little tension left his body, he felt the pain of his wound more sharply.	并列句
file:///C|/Music/Books/Text/Pullman/PULLMAN,%20.	陈述句
%20Materials%202%20-%20The%20Subtle%20Knife.	陈述句
htm (108 of 157)7/09/2003 11:42:22 p.	陈述句
m.	陈述句
"Thank you," he said.	陈述句
"All right, now ask about my father—" But before she could even begin, they heard a shout from outside.	并列句
They looked out at once.	陈述句
At the lower edge of the park in front of the first houses of the city there was a belt of trees, and something was stirring there.	并列句
Both Will and Lyra stood up.	并列句
The children were coming out of the trees, one by one, maybe forty or fifty of them.	并列句
Many of them were carrying sticks.	陈述句
"There's Angelica," Lyra whispered, pointing.	陈述句
Will had seen children in this mood before, but never so many of them, and the ones in his town didn't carry guns.	并列句
They were shouting, and Will managed to make out Angelica's voice high over them all: "You killed my brother and you stole the knife!	并列句
You murderers!	陈述句
You made the Specters get him!	陈述句
You killed him, and we'll kill you!	并列句
We gonna kill you same as you killed him!	陈述句
" "Will, you could cut a window!	陈述句
" Lyra said urgently, clutching his good arm.	陈述句
In Oxford, a few yards from Sir Charles's house, in broad daylight.	陈述句
Probably in the main street in front of a bus.	陈述句
I can't just cut through anywhere and expect to be safe—I've got to look first and see where we are, and that'd take too long.	并列句
There's a forest or woods or something behind this house.	并列句
If we can get up there in the trees, we'11 be safer.	陈述句
"They must've seen us last night," she said.	陈述句
"I bet they was too cowardly to attack us on their own, so they rounded up all them others.	并列句
I should have killed her yesterday!	陈述句
She's as bad as her brother.	陈述句
I'd like to—" "Stop talking and come on," said Will.	并列句
He checked that the knife was strapped to his belt, and Lyra put on her little rucksack with the alethiometer and the letters from Will's father.	并列句
They ran through the echoing hall, along the corridor and into the kitchen, through the scullery, and into a cobbled court beyond it.	并列句
A gate in the wall led out into a kitchen garden, where beds of vegetables and herbs lay baking under the morning sun.	并列句
The edge of the woods was a few hundred yards away, up a slope of grass that was horribly exposed.	陈述句
On a knoll to the left, closer than the trees, stood a little building, a circular temple-like structure with columns all the way around and an upper story open like a balcony from which to view the city.	并列句
"Let's run," said Will, though he felt less like running than like lying down and closing his eyes.	并列句
With Pantalaimon flying above to keep watch, they set off across the grass.	陈述句
But it was tussocky and ankle-high, and Will couldn't run more than a few steps before he felt too dizzy to carry on.	并列句
Lyra looked back.	陈述句
The children hadn't seen them yet; they were still at the front of the house.	陈述句
Maybe they'd take a while to look through all the rooms.	陈述句
But Pantalaimon chirruped in alarm.	并列句
There was a boy standing at an open window on the second floor of the villa, pointing at them.	陈述句
They heard a shout.	陈述句
"Come on, Will," Lyra said.	陈述句
She tugged at his good arm, helping him, lifting him.	陈述句
He tried to respond, but he didn't have the file:///C|/Music/Books/Text/Pullman/PULLMAN,%20.	并列句
%20Materials%202%20-%20The%20Subtle%20Knife.	陈述句
htm (109 of 157)7/09/2003 11:42:22 p.	陈述句
m.	陈述句
strength.	陈述句
So we'll go to that temple place.	并列句
If we shut the door, maybe we can hold them out for long enough to cut through after all.	陈述句
" Pantalaimon darted ahead, and Lyra gasped and called to him breathlessly, making him pause.	并列句
Will could almost see the bond between them, the daemon tugging and the girl responding.	并列句
The door under the little portico was unlocked, and they ran inside to find themselves in a bare circular room with several statues of goddesses in niches around the wall.	并列句
In the very center a spiral staircase of wrought iron led up through an opening to the floor above.	陈述句
There was no key to lock the door, so they clambered up the staircase and onto the floorboards of an upper level that was really a viewing place, where people could come to take the air and look out over the city; for there were no windows or walls, simply a series of open arches all the way around supporting the roof.	并列句
In each archway a windowsill at waist height was broad enough to lean on, and below them the pantiled roof ran down in a gentle slope all around to the gutter.	并列句
But there was no time to take in the view; first they had to deal with the children, who were racing up toward the temple, screaming with rage and excitement.	并列句
Then they came on again, yelling: "Thiefs!	陈述句
" "Murderers!	陈述句
" "We gonna kill you!	陈述句
" "You don' come from here!	陈述句
" Will took no notice.	陈述句
He had the knife out already, and swiftly cut a small window to see where they were—only to recoil at once.	并列句
They were fifty feet or so in the air, high above a main road busy with traffic.	并列句
"Of course," Will said bitterly, "we came up a slope.	陈述句
Well, we're stuck.	陈述句
" Another few seconds and the first children were crowding in through the door.	并列句
The sound of their yelling echoed in the temple and reinforced their wildness; and then came a gunshot, enormously loud, and another, and the screaming took another tone, and then the stairs began to shake as the first ones climbed up.	并列句
He scrambled over to the opening in the floor and reached down and sliced through the iron of the top step as if it were paper.	并列句
With nothing to hold it up, the staircase began to bend under the weight of the children crowding on it, and then it swung down and fell with a huge crash.	并列句
Someone had been hit, and the scream was of pain this time, and Will looked down to see a tangle of writhing bodies covered in plaster and dust and blood.	并列句
They weren't individual children: they were a single mass, like a tide.	陈述句
They surged below him and file:///C|/Music/Books/Text/Pullman/PULLMAN,%20.	并列句
m.	陈述句
leaped up in fury, snatching, threatening, screaming, spitting, but they couldn't reach.	并列句
Then someone called, and they looked to the door, and those who could move surged toward it, leaving several pinned beneath the iron stairs or dazed and struggling to get up from the rubble-strewn floor.	并列句
Will soon realized why they'd run out.	陈述句
There was a scrabbling sound from the roof outside the arches, and he ran to the windowsill to see the first pair of hands grasping the edge of the pantiles and pulling up.	并列句
Someone was pushing from behind, and then came another head and another pair of hands, as they clambered over the shoulders and backs of those below and swarmed up onto the roof like ants.	并列句
But the pantiled ridges were hard to walk on, and the first ones scrambled up on hands and knees, their wild eyes never leaving Will's face.	并列句
Lyra had joined him, and Pantalaimon was snarling as a leopard, paws on the sill, making the first children hesitate.	并列句
But still they came on, more and more of them.	并列句
Someone was shouting "Kill!	陈述句
" and then others joined in, louder and louder, and those on the roof began to stamp and thump the tiles in rhythm, but they didn't quite dare come closer, faced by the snarling daemon.	并列句
Then a tile broke, and the boy standing on it slipped and fell, but the one beside him picked up the broken piece and hurled it at Lyra.	并列句
She ducked, and it shattered on the column beside her, showering her with broken pieces.	并列句
He fell at once, but then came another, and it was Angelica, red-haired, white-faced, crazy-eyed.	并列句
The knife was in its sheath at his waist, and he struck and swung and jabbed with the iron rail, and while several children fell back, others kept replacing them, and more and more were clambering up onto the roof from below.	并列句
However, his eyes and Will's locked together, and each of them knew what was going to happen: they were going to fight, and it was going to be brutal and deadly.	并列句
"Come on, then.	陈述句
" Another second, and they would have fought.	并列句
But then the strangest thing appeared: a great white snow goose swooping low, his wings spread wide, calling and calling so loudly that even the children on the roof heard through their savagery and turned to see.	并列句
"Kaisa!	陈述句
" cried Lyra joyfully, for it was Serafina Pekkala's daemon.	陈述句
The snow goose called again, a piercing whoop that filled the sky, and then wheeled and turned an inch away from the boy in the striped T-shirt.	并列句
"Serafina Pekkala!	陈述句
Here!	陈述句
In the temple—" And with a hiss and rush of air, a dozen arrows, and then another dozen swiftly after, and then another dozen—loosed so quickly that they were all in the air at once—shot at the temple roof above the gallery and landed with a thunder of hammer blows.	并列句
Astonished and bewildered, the children on the roof felt all the aggression leave them in a moment, and horrible fear rushed in to take its place.	并列句
What were these black-garbed women rushing at them in the air?	疑问句
How could it happen?	疑问句
Were they ghosts?	疑问句
file:///C|/Music/Books/Text/Pullman/PULLMAN,%20.	陈述句
%20Materials%202%20-%20The%20Subtle%20Knife.	陈述句
htm (111 of 157)7/09/2003 11:42:22 p.	陈述句
m.	陈述句
A minute after the snow goose had appeared, the last of the children left the temple, and the only sound was the rush of air in the branches of the circling witches above.	并列句
Will looked up in wonder, too amazed to speak, but Lyra was leaping and calling with delight, "Serafina Pekkala!	并列句
How did you find us?	疑问句
They was going to kill us!	陈述句
Come down and land.	并列句
" But Serafina and the others shook their heads and flew up again, to circle high above.	并列句
The snow goose daemon wheeled and flew down toward the roof, beating his great wings inward to help him slow down, and landed with a clatter on the pantiles below the sill.	并列句
"Greetings, Lyra," he said.	陈述句
"Serafina Pekkala can't come to the ground, nor can the others.	陈述句
The place is full of Specters—a hundred or more surrounding the building, and more drifting up over the grass.	并列句
We can't see 'em at all!	陈述句
" "Already we've lost one witch.	陈述句
We can't risk any more.	陈述句
Can you get down from this building?	疑问句
But how did you find us?	并列句
And where—" "Enough now.	并列句
There's more trouble coming, and bigger.	并列句
Get down as best you can and then make for the trees.	并列句
" They climbed over the sill and moved sideways down through the broken tiles to the gutter.	并列句
It wasn't high, and below it was grass, with a gentle slope away from the building.	并列句
His sling had come loose and trailed behind him, and as he tried to roll it up, the snow goose landed on the grass at his side.	并列句
"Lyra, who is this?	疑问句
" Kaisa said.	陈述句
" The goose daemon was speaking directly to Will.	陈述句
By this time Will was hardly surprised by anything, and he said, "I don't know.	并列句
We can't see them.	陈述句
No, wait!	陈述句
"Where are they now?	疑问句
" he said.	陈述句
"Where's the nearest one?	疑问句
" 'Ten paces away, down the slope," said the daemon.	陈述句
" Will took out the knife and looked in that direction, and he heard the daemon hiss with surprise.	并列句
"Your name is Will?	疑问句
" "Because of the knife.	陈述句
Where's the nearest one?	疑问句
Tell me!	陈述句
I want to kill it!	陈述句
"Serafina Pekkala!	陈述句
" she cried, and she threw her arms around the witch and hugged her so tightly that the witch laughed out loud, and kissed the top of her head.	并列句
"Oh, Serafina, where did you come from like that?	疑问句
We thought we were going to die and—oh, I'm so glad you came!	并列句
I thought I'd never see file:///C|/Music/Books/Text/Pullman/PULLMAN,%20.	陈述句
htm (112 of 157)7/09/2003 11:42:22 p.	陈述句
m.	陈述句
"Now listen," she said.	陈述句
The Specters won't follow—they don't see us while we're in the air, and they're afraid of you.	并列句
We'll meet you there.	陈述句
It's a half-hour's walk.	陈述句
Will shaded his eyes to watch her and the other ragged, elegant figures wheel in the air and dart up over the trees.	并列句
"Oh, Will, we'll be safe now!	陈述句
" said Lyra.	陈述句
"I never thought I'd see her again.	陈述句
Just like before, at Bolvangar.	陈述句
" Chattering happily, as if she'd already forgotten the fight, she led the way up the slope toward the forest.	陈述句
Will followed in silence.	陈述句
His hand was throbbing badly, and with each throb a little more blood was leaving him.	并列句
It took not half an hour but an hour and three quarters, because Will had to stop and rest several times.	并列句
When they reached the cave, they found a fire, a rabbit roasting, and Serafina Pekkala stirring something in a small iron pot.	并列句
"Let me see your wound" was the first thing she said to Will, and he dumbly held out his hand.	并列句
" Will reached for the knife and handed it to her silently.	并列句
Her companions looked at it with wonder and suspicion, for they had never seen such a blade before, with such an edge on it.	并列句
"This will need more than herbs to heal.	陈述句
It will need a spell," said Serafina Pekkala.	陈述句
"Very well, we'll prepare one.	陈述句
In the meantime, you shall sleep.	陈述句
The witch covered him with leaves and turned to Lyra, who was still gnawing the rabbit.	并列句
"Now, Lyra," she said.	陈述句
"Tell me who this boy is, and what you know about this world, and about this knife of his.	并列句
Oliver Payne, in the little laboratory overlooking the park.	陈述句
"Either I didn't hear you, or you're talking nonsense.	并列句
A child from another world?	疑问句
" "That's what she said.	陈述句
All right, it's nonsense, but listen to it, Oliver, will you?	并列句
" said Dr.	陈述句
Mary Malone.	陈述句
%20Materials%202%20-%20The%20Subtle%20Knife.	陈述句
htm (113 of 157)7/09/2003 11:42:22 p.	陈述句
m.	陈述句
our shadow particles.	陈述句
And she said she could read that in the same way, and she knew about the state of mind, too—she knew it intimately.	并列句
Lyra's Scholar, Dr.	陈述句
They are conscious.	陈述句
And they can respond.	并列句
And you remember your skulls?	并列句
Well, she told me about some skulls in the Pitt-Rivers Museum.	陈述句
She'd found out with her compass thing that they were much older than the museum said, and there were Shadows—" "Wait a minute.	并列句
Give me some sort of structure here.	陈述句
What are you saying?	疑问句
You saying she's confirmed what we know already, or that she's telling us something new?	并列句
I don't know.	陈述句
There were shadow particles around before then, obviously—they've been around since the Big Bang—but there was no physical way of amplifying their effects at our level, the anthropic level.	陈述句
The level of human beings.	陈述句
And then something happened, I can't imagine what, but it involved evolution.	并列句
No Shadows before that time, lots afterward?	疑问句
And the skulls the child found in the museum, that she tested with her compass thing.	并列句
She told me the same thing.	陈述句
What I'm saying is that around that time, the human brain became the ideal vehicle for this amplification process.	陈述句
Suddenly we became conscious.	陈述句
" Dr.	陈述句
" he said.	陈述句
"Why suddenly thirty-five thousand years ago?	疑问句
We're not paleontologists.	陈述句
Don't you think it's at least possible?	疑问句
" "And this policeman.	陈述句
Tell me about him.	陈述句
" Dr.	陈述句
"His name is Walters," she said.	陈述句
"He said he was from the Special Branch.	陈述句
I thought that was politics or something?	并列句
all that.	陈述句
Go on.	陈述句
What did he want?	疑问句
Why did he come here?	疑问句
" "Because of the girl.	陈述句
He said he was looking for a boy of about the same age—he didn't tell me why —and this boy had been seen in the company of the girl who came here.	陈述句
But he had something else in mind as well, Oliver.	并列句
He even asked—" The telephone rang.	陈述句
She broke off, shrugging, and Dr.	并列句
Payne answered it.	陈述句
He spoke briefly, put it down, and said, "We've got a visitor.	并列句
" "Who?	疑问句
" "Not a name I know.	陈述句
Listen, Mary, I'm off, you realize that, don't you?	疑问句
" "They offered you the job.	陈述句
" "Yes.	陈述句
I've got to take it.	陈述句
You must see that.	陈述句
" He spread his hands helplessly, and said, 'To be frank.	并列句
I can't see any point in the sort of stuff you've just been talking about.	陈述句
Children from another world and fossil Shadows.	并列句
It's all too crazy.	陈述句
I just can't get involved.	陈述句
" "What about the skulls you tested?	疑问句
What about the Shadows around the ivory figurine?	疑问句
" He shook his head and turned his back.	并列句
file:///C|/Music/Books/Text/Pullman/PULLMAN,%20.	陈述句
%20Materials%202%20-%20The%20Subtle%20Knife.	陈述句
htm (114 of 157)7/09/2003 11:42:22 p.	陈述句
m.	陈述句
Dr.	陈述句
Payne?	疑问句
Dr.	陈述句
Malone?	疑问句
My name is Charles Latrom.	陈述句
It's very good of you to see me without any notice.	陈述句
"Did Oh'ver say Sir Charles?	疑问句
" "How do you know that?	疑问句
" said Dr.	陈述句
Payne.	陈述句
"I used to be a civil servant.	陈述句
I still have a number of contacts in the field, and I heard.	并列句
May I sit down?	疑问句
" "Oh, please," said Dr.	陈述句
She pulled out a chair, and he sat down as if he were in charge of a meeting.	并列句
"Thank you.	陈述句
I heard through a friend—I'd better not mention his name; the Official Secrets Act covers all sorts of silly things—I heard that your application was being considered, and what I heard about it intrigued me so much that I must confess I asked to see some of your work.	并列句
" "Does that mean you think we'll be successful?	疑问句
Malone, leaning forward, eager to believe him.	陈述句
"Unfortunately, no.	陈述句
I must be blunt.	陈述句
Malone's shoulders slumped.	陈述句
Dr.	陈述句
Payne was watching the old man with cautious curiosity.	陈述句
" he said.	陈述句
However, it might be that if you had someone to argue the case for you, they would see it differently.	陈述句
I didn't think it worked like that," said Dr.	陈述句
Malone, sitting up.	陈述句
"I thought they went on peer review and so on.	并列句
" "It does in principle, of course," said Sir Charles.	陈述句
"But it also helps to know how these committees work in practice.	陈述句
And to know who's on them.	并列句
Well, here I am.	陈述句
I'm intensely interested in your work; I think it might be very valuable, and it certainly ought to continue.	并列句
Would you let me make informal representations on your behalf?	疑问句
" Dr.	陈述句
Malone felt like a drowning sailor being thrown a life belt.	陈述句
"Why.	陈述句
well, yes!	陈述句
Good grief, of course!	陈述句
And thank you.	并列句
I mean, do you really think it'll make a difference?	疑问句
I don't mean to suggest that.	陈述句
Yes, of course!	陈述句
" "What would we have to do?	疑问句
" said Dr.	陈述句
Payne.	陈述句
Dr.	陈述句
Malone looked at him in surprise.	陈述句
But he seemed to be understanding Sir Charles better than she was, for a flicker of complicity was passing between them, and Oliver came to sit down, too.	并列句
And provided we could agree, I might even be able to find you some extra money from another source altogether.	并列句
" "Wait, wait," said Dr.	陈述句
Malone.	陈述句
"Wait a minute.	陈述句
The course of this research is a matter for us.	陈述句
I'm perfectly willing to discuss the results, but not the direction.	并列句
Oliver Payne stood too, anxious.	陈述句
Malone will hear you out.	陈述句
Mary, there's no harm in listening, for goodness' sake.	陈述句
" file:///C|/Music/Books/Text/Pullman/PULLMAN,%20.	陈述句
%20Materials%202%20-%20The%20Subtle%20Knife.	陈述句
htm (115 of 157)7/09/2003 11:42:22 p.	陈述句
m.	陈述句
"I thought you were going to Geneva?	疑问句
" she said.	陈述句
"Geneva?	疑问句
" said Sir Charles.	陈述句
Don't let me hold you back.	陈述句
" "No, no, it's not settled yet," said Dr.	陈述句
Payne hastily.	陈述句
Sir Charles, please sit down.	陈述句
Dr.	陈述句
She saw a man in his late sixties, prosperous, confident, beautifully dressed, used to the very best of everything, used to moving among powerful people and whispering in important ears.	并列句
And they wouldn't get his support unless they satisfied him.	并列句
" "Do, please," said Dr.	陈述句
Payne.	陈述句
"Well, I understand that you've made some fascinating discoveries in the field of consciousness.	陈述句
Yes, I know, you haven't published anything yet, and it's a long way—seemingly— from the apparent subject of your research.	并列句
Nevertheless, word gets around.	陈述句
And I'm especially interested in that.	并列句
I would be very pleased if, for example, you were to concentrate your research on the manipulation of consciousness.	陈述句
Second, the many-worlds hypothesis—Everett, you remember, 1957 or thereabouts—I believe you're on the track of something that could take that theory a good deal further.	并列句
"Don't expect me to reveal my sources," he went on, holding up his hand as Dr.	陈述句
And third, there is a particular matter connected with an individual.	并列句
A child.	陈述句
Dr.	陈述句
Malone couldn't speak.	陈述句
She'd gone pale, though she couldn't know that, but she did know that she felt faint.	并列句
"For various reasons," Sir Charles went on, "I am in contact with the intelligence services.	陈述句
There is also a boy of roughly the same age— twelve or so—who is wanted in connection with a murder.	并列句
It's a moot point whether a child of that age is capable of murder, of course, but he has certainly killed someone.	并列句
And he has been seen with the girl.	并列句
"Now, Dr.	陈述句
And it may be that you are quite properly inclined to tell the police about what you know.	并列句
But you would be doing a greater service if you were to let me know privately.	并列句
I know that Inspector Walters came to see you yesterday, and I know that the girl turned up.	并列句
You see, I do know what I'm talking about.	陈述句
I would know, for instance, if you saw her again, and if you didn't tell me, I would know that too.	并列句
"Well, there I'll stop.	陈述句
Here's my card so you can get in touch.	并列句
I shouldn't leave it too long; the funding committee meets tomorrow, as you know.	陈述句
But you can reach me at this number at any file:///C|/Music/Books/Text/Pullman/PULLMAN,%20.	并列句
%20Materials%202%20-%20The%20Subtle%20Knife.	陈述句
htm (116 of 157)7/09/2003 11:42:22 p.	陈述句
time.	陈述句
" He gave a card to Oliver Payne, and seeing Dr.	并列句
Dr.	陈述句
Payne held the door for him.	陈述句
Sir Charles set his Panama hat on his head, patted it gently, beamed at both of them, and left.	并列句
When he'd shut the door again, Dr.	陈述句
Where's the sense in behaving like that?	疑问句
" "I beg your pardon?	疑问句
You're not taken in by that old creep, are you?	疑问句
Do you want this project to survive or not?	并列句
"It was an ultimatum.	陈述句
Do as he says, or close down.	并列句
And, Oliver, for God's sake, all those not-so-subtle threats and hints about national security and so on—can't you see where that would lead?	并列句
They'd take it over.	陈述句
If they're as interested as he says, they'll want it to carry on.	陈述句
But only on their terms.	并列句
" "But their terms would be.	陈述句
I mean, defense, for God's sake.	陈述句
They want to find new ways of killing people.	陈述句
And you heard what he said about consciousness: he wants to manipulate it.	并列句
I'm not going to get mixed up in that, Oliver, never.	陈述句
" "They'll do it anyway, and you'll be out of a job.	并列句
If you stay, you might be able to influence it in a better direction.	陈述句
And you'd still have your hands on the work!	并列句
" He ran his hands through his hair and said, "Well, not settled.	并列句
Nothing's signed.	陈述句
And it would be a different angle altogether, and I'd be sorry to leave here now that I think we're really on to something.	并列句
" "What are you saying?	疑问句
" "I'm not saying—" "You're hinting.	陈述句
What are you getting at?	疑问句
"Well, if you don't get in touch with him, I will," he said finally.	陈述句
She was silent.	陈述句
Then she said, "Oh, I see.	陈述句
" "Mary, I've got to think of—" "Of course you have.	陈述句
" "It's not that—" "No, no.	陈述句
" "You don't understand—" "Yes, I do.	陈述句
It's very simple.	陈述句
You promise to do as he says, you get the funding, I leave, you take over as Director.	陈述句
Lots of nice new machines.	陈述句
D.	陈述句
s under you.	陈述句
You do it, Oliver.	陈述句
You go ahead.	陈述句
" "You haven't.	陈述句
" But her expression silenced him.	并列句
But just as she turned to climb the stairs, a man came out of another corridor, startling her so much she nearly dropped her briefcase.	并列句
%20Materials%202%20-%20The%20Subtle%20Knife.	陈述句
htm (117 of 157)7/09/2003 11:42:22 p.	陈述句
m.	陈述句
wearing a uniform.	陈述句
"Where are you going?	疑问句
He stood in the way, bulky, his eyes hardly visible under the low brim of his cap.	陈述句
"I'm going to my laboratory.	陈述句
I work here.	陈述句
Who are you?	疑问句
" she said, a little angry, a little frightened.	陈述句
"Security.	陈述句
" "What security?	疑问句
I left this building at three o'clock this afternoon and there was only a porter on duty, as usual.	并列句
I should be asking you for identification.	陈述句
Who appointed you?	疑问句
And why?	并列句
" "Here's my ID," said the man, showing her a card, too quickly for her to read it.	陈述句
" She noticed he had a mobile phone in a holster at his hip.	陈述句
Or was it a gun?	并列句
And he hadn't answered her questions.	并列句
She fumbled through her bag and found her wallet.	并列句
"Will this do?	疑问句
" she said, showing him the card she used to operate the barrier in the car park.	陈述句
He looked at it briefly.	陈述句
"What are you doing here at this time of night?	疑问句
" he said.	陈述句
I have to check the computer periodically.	陈述句
Finally he nodded and stood aside.	并列句
There had never been any more "security" in this building than a lock on the door and an elderly porter, and she knew why the change had come about.	并列句
She locked the door behind her and lowered the blinds.	并列句
She switched on the detector and then took a floppy disk from her pocket and slipped it into the computer that controlled the Cave.	并列句
Within a minute she had begun to manipulate the numbers on the screen, going half by logic, half by guesswork, and half by the program she'd worked on all evening at home; and the complexity of her task was about as baffling as getting three halves to make one whole.	并列句
She felt intensely self-conscious.	陈述句
Hello.	陈述句
I'm not sure what I'm doing.	陈述句
Maybe this is crazy.	陈述句
The words arranged themselves on the left of the screen, which was the first surprise.	陈述句
She wasn't using a word-processing program of any kind—in fact, she was bypassing much of the operating system—and whatever formatting was imposing itself on the words, it wasn't hers.	陈述句
She felt the hairs begin to stir on the back of her neck, and she became aware of the whole building around her: the corridors dark, the machines idling, various experiments running automatically, computers monitoring tests and recording the results, the air-conditioning sampling and adjusting the humidity and the temperature, all the ducts and pipework and cabling that were the arteries and the nerves of the building awake and alert.	并列句
almost conscious in fact.	陈述句
She tried again.	陈述句
I'm trying to do with words what I've file:///C|/Music/Books/Text/Pullman/PULLMAN,%20.	陈述句
htm (118 of 157)7/09/2003 11:42:22 p.	陈述句
done before with a state of mind, but Before she had even finished the sentence, the cursor raced across to the right of the screen and printed: ASK A QUESTION.	并列句
It was almost instantaneous.	陈述句
She felt as if she had stepped on a space that wasn't there.	陈述句
YES.	陈述句
Are you the same as Lyra's Dust?	疑问句
And is that dark matter?	并列句
Dark matter is conscious?	疑问句
EVIDENTLY.	陈述句
What I said to Oliver this CORRECT.	陈述句
evolution, is it She stopped, took a deep breath, pushed her chair back, flexed her fingers.	陈述句
She could feel her heart racing.	陈述句
Every single thing about what was happening was impossible.	陈述句
All her education, all her habits of mind, all her sense of herself as a scientist were shrieking at her silently: This is wrong!	陈述句
You're dreaming!	陈述句
BUT HUMANS HAVE answering these ALWAYS KNOWN questions isn't human, is it?	并列句
Us?	疑问句
There's more than UNCOUNTABLE BILLIONS one of you?	疑问句
But, what are you?	疑问句
ANGELS file:///C|/Music/Books/Text/Pullman/PULLMAN,%20.	陈述句
%20Materials%202%20-%20The%20Subtle%20Knife.	陈述句
Mary Malone's head rang.	陈述句
She'd been brought up as a Catholic.	陈述句
More than that—as Lyra had discovered, she had once been a nun.	陈述句
Augustine had said, "Angel is the name of their office, not of their nature.	陈述句
If you seek the name of their nature, it is spirit; if you seek the name of their office, it is angel; from what they are, spirit, from what they do, angel.	陈述句
" Dizzy, trembling, she typed again:  And Shadow matter is what we  FROM WHAT WE ARE,  have called spirit?	并列句
She shivered.	陈述句
They'd been listening to her thoughts.	陈述句
And did you intervene in YES human evolution?	并列句
Vengeance for—oh!	陈述句
RebeL angels!	陈述句
FIND THE GIRL AND THE After the war in Heaven— Satan BOY.	并列句
WASTE NO MORE TIME.	陈述句
and the Garden of Eden—but it isn't true, is it?	并列句
Is that what you But why?	并列句
YOU MUST PLAY THE SERPENT.	陈述句
She took her hands from the keyboard and rubbed her eyes.	并列句
The words were still there when she looked again.	陈述句
Where GO TO A ROAD CALLED SUNDERLAND AVENUE AND FIND A TENT.	并列句
DECEIVE THE GUARDIAN AND GO THROUGH.	并列句
TAKE PROVISIONS FOR A LONG JOURNEY.	陈述句
YOU WILL BE PROTECTED.	陈述句
THE SPECTERS WILL NOT TOUCH YOU.	陈述句
file:///C|/Music/Books/Text/Pullman/PULLMAN,%20.	陈述句
Why me?	疑问句
And YOU HAVE BEEN PREPARING FOR THIS AS LONG AS YOU HAVE LIVED.	并列句
YOUR WORK HERE IS FINISHED.	陈述句
THE LAST THING YOU MUST DO IN THIS WORLD IS PREVENT THE ENEMIES FROM TAKING CONTROL OF IT.	陈述句
DESTROY THE EQUIPMENT.	陈述句
DO IT NOW AND GO AT ONCE.	并列句
She might have doubted what she had done, and what she could still see on the screen, but she had passed in the last half-hour or so beyond doubt and belief altogether.	并列句
Something had happened, and she was galvanized.	并列句
She switched off the detector and the amplifier.	并列句
Then she bypassed all the safety codes and formatted the computer's hard disk, wiping it clean; and then she removed the interface between the detector and the amplifier, which was on a specially adapted card, and put the card on the bench and smashed it with the heel of her shoe, there being nothing else heavy at hand.	并列句
Next she disconnected the wiring between the electromagnetic shield and the detector, and found the wiring plan in a drawer of the filing cabinet and set light to it.	并列句
Was there anything else she could do?	疑问句
She couldn't do much about Oliver Payne's knowledge of the program, but the special hardware was effectively demolished.	并列句
Then she switched off the light and left.	并列句
The security guard was standing at the foot of the stairs, speaking into his telephone.	陈述句
He put it away as she came down, and escorted her silently to the side entrance, watching through the glass door as she drove away.	并列句
She had had to find it on a map of Oxford; she didn't know this part of town.	陈述句
Up till this moment she had been moving on pent-up excitement, but as she got out of her car in the dark of the small hours and found the night cool and silent and still all around her, she felt a definite lurch of apprehension.	并列句
Suppose she was dreaming?	疑问句
She was committed.	陈述句
She lifted out the rucksack she'd often taken on camping journeys in Scotland and the Alps, and reflected that at least she knew how to survive out of doors; if worse came to worst, she could always run away, take to the hills.	并列句
Ridiculous.	陈述句
But she swung the rucksack onto her back, left the car, turned into the Banbury Road, and walked the two or three hundred yards up to where Sunderland Avenue ran left from the rotary.	并列句
She felt file:///C|/Music/Books/Text/Pullman/PULLMAN,%20.	陈述句
htm (121 of 157)7/09/2003 11:42:22 p.	陈述句
almost more foolish than she had ever felt in her life.	陈述句
But as she turned the corner and saw those strange childlike trees that Will had seen, she knew that something at least was true about all this.	并列句
Under the trees on the grass at the far side of the road there was a small square tent of red and white nylon, the sort that electricians put up to keep the rain off while they work, and parked close by was an unmarked white Transit van with darkened glass in the windows.	并列句
Better not hesitate.	陈述句
She walked straight across toward the tent.	陈述句
When she was nearly there, the back door of the van swung open and a policeman stepped out.	并列句
"Could I ask where you're going, madam?	疑问句
"Into that tent.	陈述句
" "I'm afraid you can't, madam.	陈述句
I've got orders not to let anyone near it.	陈述句
" "Good," she said.	陈述句
"I'm glad they've got the place protected.	陈述句
"But have you got anything to show who you are?	疑问句
" "Oh, sure," she said, and swung the rucksack off her back to get at her purse.	并列句
Among the items she had taken from the drawer in the laboratory was an expired library card of Oliver Payne's.	陈述句
Fifteen minutes' work at her kitchen table and the photograph from her own passport had produced something she hoped would pass for genuine.	并列句
The policeman took the laminated card and looked at it closely.	并列句
'"Dr.	陈述句
Olive Payne,'" he read.	陈述句
Mary Malone?	疑问句
" "Oh, yes.	陈述句
She's a colleague.	陈述句
" "Do you know where she is now?	疑问句
" "At home in bed, if she's got any sense.	陈述句
Why?	疑问句
" "Well, I understand her position in your organization's been terminated, and she wouldn't be allowed through here.	并列句
And seeing a woman, I naturally thought you might be her, if you see what I mean.	并列句
Excuse me, Dr.	陈述句
" "Ah, I see," said Mary Malone.	陈述句
The policeman looked at the card once more.	陈述句
"Still, this seems all right," he said, and handed it back.	并列句
Nervous, wanting to talk, he went on.	陈述句
"Do you know what's in there under that tent?	疑问句
"That's why I'm here now.	陈述句
" "I suppose it is.	陈述句
" He stood back and let her unlace the flap of the tent.	并列句
She hoped he wouldn't see the shaking of her hands.	陈述句
Deceive the guardian—well, she'd done that; but she had no idea what she would find inside the tent.	并列句
She was prepared for some sort of archaeological dig; for a dead body; for a meteorite.	陈述句
But nothing in her life or her dreams had prepared her for that square yard or so in midair, or for the silent sleeping city by the sea that she found when she stepped through it.	并列句
THIRTEEN AESAHAETTR file:///C|/Music/Books/Text/Pullman/PULLMAN,%20.	陈述句
htm (122 of 157)7/09/2003 11:42:22 p.	陈述句
As the moon rose, the witches began their spell to heal Will's wound.	陈述句
Lyra sat nearby stirring some herbs in a pot of boiling water over a fire, and while her companions clapped and stamped and cried in rhythm, Serafina crouched over the knife and sang in a high, fierce tone: "Little knife!	并列句
They tore your iron out of Mother Earth's entrails, built afire and boiled the ore, made it weep and bleed and flood, hammered it and tempered it, plunging it in icy water, heating it inside the forge till your blade was blood-red, scorching!	并列句
Then they made you wound the water once again, and yet again, till the steam was boiling fog and the water cried for mercy.	并列句
And when you sliced a single shade into thirty thousand shadows, then they knew that you were ready, then they called you subtle one.	并列句
"But little knife, what have you done?	疑问句
Unlocked blood-gates, left them wide!	陈述句
" And Serafina stamped again and clapped her hands with the other witches, and they shook their throats to make a wild ulu-lation that tore at the air like claws.	并列句
Will, seated in the middle of them, felt a chill at the core of his spine.	陈述句
Then Serafina Pekkala turned to Will himself, and took his wounded hand in both of hers.	并列句
When she sang this time, he nearly flinched, so fierce was her high, clear voice, so glittering her eyes; but he sat without moving, and let the spell goon.	并列句
"Blood!	陈述句
Obey me!	陈述句
And build a clotted wall, build it firm to hold the flood back.	并列句
Blood, your sky is the skull-dome, your sun is the open eye, your wind the breath inside the lungs, file:///C|/Music/Books/Text/Pullman/PULLMAN,%20.	陈述句
%20Materials%202%20-%20The%20Subtle%20Knife.	陈述句
" Will thought he could feel all the atoms of his body responding to her command, and he joined in, urging his leaking blood to listen and obey.	并列句
She put his hand down and turned to the little iron pot over the fire.	并列句
A bitter steam was rising from it, and Will heard the liquid bubbling fiercely.	并列句
She daubed some of the steaming liquid into the split, then closed up the wood, easing it together from the root to the tip.	陈述句
Will heard Lyra gasp, and turned to see another witch holding a squirming, struggling hare in her tough hands.	并列句
The animal was panting, wild-eyed, kicking furiously, but the witch's hands were merciless.	并列句
In one she held its forelegs and with the other she grasped its hind legs and pulled the frenzied hare out straight, its heaving belly upward.	并列句
Will felt himself grow dizzy, and Lyra was restraining Pantalaimon, hare-formed himself in sympathy, who was bucking and snapping in her arms.	并列句
The real hare fell still, eyes bulging, breast heaving, entrails glistening.	陈述句
But Serafina took some more of the decoction and trickled it into the gaping wound, and then closed up the wound with her fingers, smoothing the wet fur over it until there was no wound at all.	并列句
The witch holding the animal relaxed her grip and let it gently to the ground, where it shook itself, turned to lick its flank, flicked its ears, and nibbled a blade of grass as if it were completely alone.	并列句
Suddenly it seemed to become aware of the circle of witches around it, and like an arrow it shot away, whole again, bounding swiftly off into the dark.	并列句
Lyra, soothing Pantalaimon, glanced at Will and saw that he knew what it meant: the medicine was ready.	并列句
He held out his hand, and as Serafina daubed the steaming mixture on the bleeding stumps of his fingers he looked away and breathed in sharply several times, but he didn't flinch.	并列句
Once his open flesh was thoroughly soaked, the witch pressed some of the sodden herbs onto the wounds and tied them tight around with a strip of silk.	并列句
Will slept deeply through the rest of the night.	陈述句
It was cold, but the witches piled leaves over him, and Lyra slept huddled close behind his back.	并列句
In the morning Serafina dressed his wound again, and he tried to see from her expression whether it was healing, but her face was calm and impassive.	并列句
Once they'd eaten, Serafina told the children that the witches had agreed that since they'd come into this world to find Lyra and be her guardians, they'd help Lyra do what she now knew her task to be: namely, to guide Will to his father.	并列句
file:///C|/Music/Books/Text/Pullman/PULLMAN,%20.	陈述句
%20Materials%202%20-%20The%20Subtle%20Knife.	陈述句
htm (124 of 157)7/09/2003 11:42:22 p.	陈述句
m.	陈述句
Lyra consulted the alethiometer to begin with, but warily, and learned that they should travel in the direction of the distant mountains they could see across the great bay.	并列句
Never having been this high above the city, they weren't aware of how the coastline curved, and the mountains had been below the horizon; but now when the trees thinned, or when a slope fell away below them, they could look out to the empty blue sea and to the high blue mountains beyond, which were their destination.	并列句
It seemed a long way to go.	陈述句
They spoke little.	陈述句
Lyra and Pantalaimon discussed him endlessly.	并列句
"We could look at the alethiometer," Pantalaimon said at one point when they'd dawdled on the path to see how close they could get to a browsing fawn before it saw them.	陈述句
"We never promised not to.	陈述句
We'd be doing it for him, not for us.	陈述句
"It would be us we'd be doing it for, 'cause he'd never ask.	陈述句
You're just greedy and nosy, Pan.	并列句
" "That makes a change.	陈述句
I never wanted to go in there.	陈述句
" "If we hadn't, Pan, d'you think all this would have happened?	疑问句
" "No.	陈述句
" "Yeah, I suppose.	陈述句
Who d'you think Will's father is, though?	疑问句
" "That's what I mean!	陈述句
" And she looked wistful.	并列句
"I might have done once," she said, "but I'm changing, I think, Pan.	陈述句
" "You might not be.	陈述句
What're you going to be?	疑问句
" "A flea, I hope.	陈述句
" "No, but don't you get any feelings about what you might be?	并列句
" "No.	陈述句
" He changed into a pig and grunted and squealed and snorted till she laughed at him, and then he changed into a squirrel and darted through the branches beside her.	并列句
" Pantalaimon said.	陈述句
" "Could be.	陈述句
But he's bound to be someone important, almost as important as Lord Asriel.	并列句
Bound to be.	陈述句
We know what we 're doing is important, after all.	陈述句
" "We don't know it," Pantalaimon pointed out.	陈述句
We just decided to look for Dust because Roger died.	陈述句
" "We know it's important!	陈述句
" Lyra said hotly, and she even stamped her foot.	并列句
"And so do the witches.	并列句
And we got to help Will find his father.	并列句
Thai's important.	陈述句
You know it is, too, else you wouldn't have licked him when he was wounded.	陈述句
You never asked me if you could.	陈述句
And if you were half as good at seeing things as you think you are, you'd've known that.	并列句
" "I did know it, really," she said.	陈述句
They stopped then, because they had caught up with Will, who was sitting on a rock beside the path.	陈述句
Pantalaimon became a flycatcher, and as he flew among the branches, Lyra said, "Will, what d'you think those kids'll do now?	并列句
" file:///C|/Music/Books/Text/Pullman/PULLMAN,%20.	陈述句
%20Materials%202%20-%20The%20Subtle%20Knife.	陈述句
htm (125 of 157)7/09/2003 11:42:22 p.	陈述句
m.	陈述句
"They won't be following us.	陈述句
They were too frightened of the witches.	陈述句
" "Yeah, probably.	陈述句
They might want to use the knife, though.	陈述句
They might come after us for that.	陈述句
" "Let them.	陈述句
They're not having it, not now.	陈述句
I didn't want it at first.	陈述句
But if it can kill the Specters.	并列句
"Yes, you did," he said.	陈述句
I did, really.	陈述句
I hated it in the end, that city.	陈述句
" "I thought it was heaven when I first found it.	陈述句
I couldn't imagine anything better than that And all the time it was full of Specters, and we never knew.	并列句
" "Well, I won't trust kids again," said Lyra.	陈述句
But I en't sure now.	并列句
I never seen kids like that before, and that's a fact.	并列句
In your world?	疑问句
" "Yeah," he said, awkwardly.	陈述句
"It was when my mother was having one of her bad times.	陈述句
And every so often she'd start thinking things that weren't true.	并列句
And having to do things that didn't make sense—not to me, anyway.	并列句
I mean she had to do them or else she'd get upset and afraid, and so I used to help her.	并列句
Like touching all the railings in the park, or counting the leaves on a bush—that kind of thing.	并列句
But I was afraid of anyone finding out she was like that, because I thought they'd take her away, so I used to look after her and hide it.	并列句
I never told anyone.	陈述句
"And once she got afraid when I wasn't there to help her.	陈述句
I was at school.	陈述句
And she went out and she wasn't wearing very much, only she didn't know.	并列句
" Will's face was hot.	陈述句
Without being able to help it he found himself walking up and down and looking away from Lyra because his voice was unsteady and his eyes were watering.	并列句
They thought she was mad and they wanted to hurt her, maybe kill her, I wouldn't be surprised.	并列句
Anyway, I found her and I got her home.	并列句
And I was going to fight the rest of them, too, but I got in trouble and I realized I better stop because they'd find out—I mean the teachers and the authorities.	并列句
They'd go to my mother and complain about me, and then they'd find out about how she was and take her away.	并列句
So I just pretended to be sorry and told the teachers I wouldn't do it again, and they punished me for fighting and I still said nothing.	并列句
But I kept her safe, see.	并列句
No one knew, ever.	陈述句
"But after that I never trusted children any more than grownups.	陈述句
So I wasn't surprised when those kids in Ci'gazze did that.	并列句
She pretended not to see.	陈述句
"Will," she said, "what you said about your mother.	陈述句
and when you said yesterday that you thought the Specters came from your world.	并列句
" "Yes.	陈述句
Because it doesn't make sense, what was happening to her.	陈述句
She wasn't mad.	陈述句
%20Materials%202%20-%20The%20Subtle%20Knife.	陈述句
m.	陈述句
think she was mad and laugh at her and try to hurt her, but they were wrong; she wasn't mad.	并列句
Except that she was afraid of things I couldn't see.	陈述句
Like her counting all die leaves, or Tullio yesterday touching the stones in the wall.	并列句
Maybe that was a way of trying to put the Specters off.	陈述句
It looks like that.	陈述句
There were real things for her to be frightened of, like those men who came and robbed us, but there was something else as well as them.	并列句
So that's why I was glad yesterday when the alethiometer said she was all right.	并列句
" He was breathing fast, and his right hand was gripping the handle of the knife in its sheath.	并列句
"When did you know you had to look for your father?	疑问句
" she said after a while.	陈述句
"I used to pretend he was a prisoner and I'd help him escape.	并列句
I had long games by myself doing that; it used to go on for days.	陈述句
So I always said to myself that when I grew up I'd go and look for my father.	并列句
And my mother used to tell me that I was going to take up my father's mantle.	并列句
She used to say that to make me feel good.	陈述句
I didn't know what it meant, but it sounded important.	并列句
" "Didn't you have friends?	疑问句
" "How could I have friends?	疑问句
" he said, simply puzzled.	陈述句
"Friends.	陈述句
Sometimes a boy might ask me around to his house, and I might go or I might not, but I could never ask him back.	并列句
So I never had friends, really.	并列句
I would have liked.	陈述句
I had my cat," he went on.	陈述句
"I hope she's all right now.	陈述句
I hope someone's looking after her.	陈述句
" "What about the man you killed?	疑问句
" Lyra said, her heart beating hard.	陈述句
" "I don't know.	陈述句
He deserved it.	陈述句
There were two of them.	陈述句
They wanted to know all about my father, and they wouldn't leave her alone.	并列句
I'm not sure if they were police or what.	并列句
I thought at first they were part of a gang or something, and they thought my father had robbed a bank, maybe, and hidden the money.	并列句
They wanted some letters that my father had sent.	陈述句
They broke into the house one day, and then I saw it would be safer if my mother was somewhere else.	并列句
See, I couldn't go to the police and ask them for help, because they'd take my mother away.	并列句
"So in the end I asked this old lady who used to teach me the piano.	陈述句
I asked her if my mother could stay with her, and I took her there.	并列句
I think she'll look after her all right.	陈述句
Anyway, I went back to the house to look for these letters, because I knew where she kept them, and I got them, and the men came to look and broke into the house again.	并列句
It was nighttime, or early morning.	并列句
And I was hiding at the top of the stairs and Moxie—my cat, Moxie—she came out of the bedroom.	并列句
And I didn't see her, nor did the man, and when I knocked into him she tripped him up, and he fell right to the bottom of the stairs.	并列句
"And I ran away.	陈述句
That's all that happened.	陈述句
So I didn't mean to kill him, but I don't care if I did.	并列句
And that only happened because I saw file:///C|/Music/Books/Text/Pullman/PULLMAN,%20.	并列句
%20Materials%202%20-%20The%20Subtle%20Knife.	陈述句
htm (127 of 157)7/09/2003 11:42:22 p.	陈述句
m.	陈述句
If I hadn't seen her.	陈述句
or if Moxie hadn't come out of the bedroom then.	并列句
" "Yeah," said Lyra, "that was lucky.	陈述句
And me and Pan were thinking just now, what if I'd never gone into the wardrobe in the retiring room at Jordan and seen the Master put poison in the wine?	并列句
None of this would have happened either.	陈述句
" Both of them sat silent on the moss-covered rock in the slant of sunlight through the old pines and thought how many tiny chances had conspired to bring them to this place.	并列句
Each of those chances might have gone a different way.	陈述句
Perhaps in another world, another Will had not seen the window in Sunder-land Avenue, and had wandered on tired and lost toward the Midlands until he was caught.	并列句
Presently Will was strong enough to go on, and they moved together along the path, with the great forest quiet around them.	并列句
At noon they came to a village untroubled by Specters.	陈述句
Goats pastured on the hillside, a grove of lemon trees cast shade on the stony ground, and children playing in the stream called out and ran for their mothers at the sight of the girl in the tattered clothing, and the white-faced, fierce-eyed boy in the bloodstained shirt, and the elegant greyhound that walked beside them.	并列句
The grownups were wary but willing to sell some bread and cheese and fruit for one of Lyra's gold coins.	并列句
The witches kept out of the way, though both children knew they'd be there in a second if any danger threatened.	陈述句
Refreshed, they moved on.	陈述句
The land was harsher now; for shade they had to rest in the shadow of rocks, not under wide-spreading trees, and the ground underfoot was hot through the soles of their shoes.	并列句
The sun pounded at their eyes.	陈述句
They moved more and more slowly as they climbed, and when the sun touched the mountain rims and they saw a little valley open below them, they decided to go no farther.	并列句
They scrambled down the slope, nearly losing their footing more man once, and then had to shove their way through thickets of dwarf rhododendrons whose dark glossy leaves and crimson flower clusters were heavy with the hum of bees.	并列句
They came out in the evening shade on a wild meadow bordering a stream.	陈述句
The grass was knee-high and thick with cornflowers, gentians, cinquefoil.	并列句
He couldn't stay awake, and he couldn't sleep, either; his head was spinning, a daze of strangeness hung over everything, and his hand was sore and throbbing.	并列句
And what was worse, it had begun to bleed again.	并列句
When Serafina looked at it, she put more herbs on the wound, and tied the silk tighter than ever, but this time her face was troubled.	并列句
He didn't want to question her, for what would be the point?	疑问句
It was plain to him that the spell hadn't worked, and he could see she knew it too.	并列句
As darkness fell, he heard Lyra come to lie down close by, and presently he heard a soft purring.	并列句
Her daemon, cat-formed, was dozing with folded paws only a foot or two away from him, and Will whispered, "Pantalaimon?	并列句
htm (128 of 157)7/09/2003 11:42:22 p.	陈述句
m.	陈述句
The daemon's eyes opened.	陈述句
Lyra didn't stir.	陈述句
" "The witches won't let you die.	陈述句
Nor will Lyra.	陈述句
" "But the spell didn't work.	陈述句
I'm frightened.	陈述句
" "Doesn't she?	疑问句
" "She thinks you're the bravest fighter she ever saw, as brave as lorek Byrnison.	陈述句
" "I suppose I better try not to seem frightened, then," Will said.	陈述句
He was quiet for a minute or so, and then he said, "I think Lyra's braver than me.	并列句
I think she's the best friend I ever had.	陈述句
" "She thinks that about you as well," whispered the daemon.	陈述句
Presently Will closed his eyes.	陈述句
There were a couple of birds roasting on a spit as well, and as Will came to sit nearby, Serafina Pekkala flew down.	并列句
"Will," she said, "eat these leaves before you have any other food.	陈述句
" She gave him a handful of soft bitter-tasting leaves somewhat like sage, and he chewed them silently and forced them down.	并列句
They ate the roasted birds, seasoning them with lemon juice, and then another witch brought some blueberries she'd found below the scree, and then the witches gathered around the fire.	并列句
They talked quietly; some of them had flown high up to spy, and one had seen a balloon over the sea.	并列句
Lyra sat up at once.	陈述句
"Mr.	陈述句
Scoresby's balloon?	疑问句
" she said.	陈述句
"There were two men in it, but it was too far away to see who they were.	并列句
A storm was gathering behind them.	陈述句
" Lyra clapped her hands.	陈述句
Scoresby's coming," she said, "we'll be able to fly, Will!	陈述句
Oh, I hope it's him!	陈述句
I never said good-bye to him, and he was so kind.	并列句
" The witch Juta Kamainen was listening, with her red-breasted robin daemon bright-eyed on her shoulder, because the mention of Lee Scoresby had reminded her of the quest he'd set out on.	陈述句
She was the witch who had loved Stanislaus Grumman and whose love he'd turned down, the witch Serafina Pekkala had brought into this world to prevent her from killing him in their own.	并列句
Serafina might have noticed, but something else happened: she held up her hand and lifted her head, as did all the other witches.	并列句
Will and Lyra could hear very faintly to the north the cry of some night bird.	并列句
But it wasn't a bird; the witches knew it at once for a daemon.	并列句
"I think it's Ruta Skadi," she said.	陈述句
And then came another cry, closer already, and then a third; and at that, all the witches seized their branches and leaped into the air.	并列句
All but two, that is, who stood close by, arrows at their bowstrings, guarding Will and Lyra.	并列句
Somewhere in the dark above, a fight was taking place.	陈述句
%20Materials%202%20-%20The%20Subtle%20Knife.	陈述句
m.	陈述句
could hear the rush of flight, the whiz of arrows, and the grunt and scream of voices raised in pain or anger or command.	并列句
It was broken by the fall, and an arrow protruded from its side, but still it lurched up and lunged with a flopping malice at Lyra.	并列句
They turned their eyes upward again, for the fight was coming lower, and the firelight glaring up showed a swift-rushing swirl of black silk, pale limbs, green pine needles, gray-brown scabby leather.	并列句
How the witches could keep their balance in the sudden turns and halts and forward darts, let alone aim and shoot, was beyond Will's understanding.	并列句
A few moments later Serafina Pekkala landed with her own witches and with another: a beautiful witch, fierce-eyed and black-haired, whose cheeks were flushed with anger and excitement.	并列句
Filthy abominations.	陈述句
There are thousands of them, breeding like flies.	陈述句
Who is this?	疑问句
He thrust it into the earth to clean it of the foul thing's blood and then rinsed it in the stream.	并列句
Ruta Skadi was saying, "Serafina Pekkala, I am learning so much; all the old things are changing, or dying, or empty.	并列句
" She ate like an animal, tearing at the remains of the roasted birds and cramming handfuls of bread into her mouth, washing it down with deep gulps from the stream.	并列句
While she ate, some of the witches carried the dead cliff-ghast away, rebuilt the fire, and then set up a watch.	并列句
The rest came to sit near Ruta Skadi to hear what she could tell them.	陈述句
She told what had happened when she flew up to meet the angels, and then of her journey to Lord Asriel's fortress.	并列句
I think he must have been preparing this for a long time, for eons.	陈述句
He was preparing this before we were born, sisters, even though he is so much younger.	并列句
But how can that be?	并列句
I don't know.	陈述句
I can't understand.	陈述句
I think he commands time, he makes it run fast or slow according to his will.	并列句
"And coming to this fortress are warriors of every kind, from every world.	陈述句
Men and women, yes, and fighting spirits, too, and armed creatures such as I had never seen—lizards and apes, great birds with poison spurs, creatures too outlandish to have a name I could guess at.	并列句
And other worlds have witches, sisters; did you know that?	并列句
I spoke to witches from a world like ours, but profoundly different, for those witches live no longer than our short-lifes, and there are men among them, too, men-witches who fly as we do.	并列句
" Her tale was causing the witches of Serafina Pekkala's clan to listen with awe and fear and disbelief.	并列句
But Serafina believed her, and urged her on.	并列句
file:///C|/Music/Books/Text/Pullman/PULLMAN,%20.	陈述句
htm (130 of 157)7/09/2003 11:42:22 p.	陈述句
m.	陈述句
"Did you see Lord Asriel, Ruta Skadi?	疑问句
'"Do they speak of it in Siberia, then?	疑问句
I wished with all my heart I could pledge us there and then.	并列句
He showed me that to rebel was right and just, when you considered what the agents of the Authority did in His name.	并列句
And I thought of the Bolvangar children, and the other terrible mutilations I have seen in our own southlands; and he told me of many more hideous cruelties dealt out in the Authority's name—of how they capture witches, in some worlds, and burn them alive, sisters.	并列句
Yes, witches like ourselves.	陈述句
"He opened my eyes.	陈述句
"Oh, sisters, I longed to throw myself and my whole clan into the cause!	并列句
But before I'd flown far, a great wind came up and hurled me high into the mountains, and I had to take refuge on a clifftop.	并列句
Knowing the sort of creatures who live on cliffs, I made myself invisible again, and in the darkness I heard voices.	并列句
"It seemed that I'd stumbled on the nesting place of the oldest of all cliff-ghasts.	陈述句
He was blind, and they were bringing him food: some stinking carrion from far below.	并列句
" 'Grandfather,' they said, 'how far back does your memory go?	疑问句
Back long before humans,' he said, and his voice was soft and cracked and frail.	并列句
" 'Is it true that the greatest battle ever known is coming soon, Grandfather?	疑问句
'A greater battle than the last one, even.	陈述句
Fine feasting for all of us.	陈述句
Is Lord Asriel going to defeat the Authority?	疑问句
' " 'Lord Asriel's army numbers millions,' the old cliff-ghast told them, 'assembled from every world.	陈述句
It's a greater army than the one that fought the Authority before, and it's better led.	并列句
As for the forces of the Authority, why, they number a hundred times as many.	陈述句
But the Authority is age-old, far older even than me, children, and His troops are frightened, and complacent where they're not frightened.	并列句
It would be a close fight, but Lord Asriel would win, because he is passionate and daring and he believes his cause is just.	并列句
Except for one thing, children.	陈述句
He hasn't got Aesahaettr.	陈述句
And then we shall feast for years, my children!	并列句
file:///C|/Music/Books/Text/Pullman/PULLMAN,%20.	陈述句
%20Materials%202%20-%20The%20Subtle%20Knife.	陈述句
m.	陈述句
"Now, you can imagine how I listened hard to hear more about this Aesahaettr, but all I could hear over the howling of the wind was a young ghast asking, 'If Lord Asriel needs Aesahasttr, why doesn't he call him?	并列句
' "And the old ghast said, 'Lord Asriel knows no more about Aesahaettr than you do, child!	陈述句
That is the joke!	陈述句
Laugh long and loud—' "But as I tried to get closer to the foul things to learn more, my power failed, sisters, I couldn't hold myself invisible any longer.	并列句
A flock of them came after me, and those are the last of them, dead over there.	并列句
"But it's clear that Lord Asriel needs us, sisters.	陈述句
Whoever this yEsahasttr is, Lord Asriel needs us!	陈述句
I wish I could go back to Lord Asriel now and say, 'Don't be anxious—we're coming—we the witches of the north, and we shall help you win.	并列句
'.	陈述句
Let's agree now, Serafina Pekkala, and call a great council of all the witches, every single clan, and make war!	并列句
But he could give no guidance, and she looked back at Ruta Skadi.	并列句
"Not us," she said.	陈述句
Will lay down, because his wound was hurting him—much more now than when it was fresh.	陈述句
His whole hand was swollen.	陈述句
Lyra too lay down, with Pantalaimon curled at her neck, and watched the fire through half-closed lids, and listened sleepily to the murmur of the witches.	并列句
Ruta Skadi walked a little way upstream, and Serafina Pekkala went with her.	并列句
"Ah, Serafina Pekkala, you should see Lord Asriel," said the Latvian queen quietly.	陈述句
"He is the greatest commander there ever was.	陈述句
Every detail of his forces is clear in his mind, imagine the daring of it, to make war on the Creator!	陈述句
But who do you think this Aesahaettr can be?	并列句
How have we not heard of him?	疑问句
" "Maybe it's not a him, sister.	陈述句
We know as little as the young cliff-ghast.	陈述句
Maybe the old grandfather was laughing at his ignorance.	陈述句
" "Then it might mean us after all, Serafina Pekkala!	陈述句
Sister, why do they do it?	疑问句
Why?	疑问句
" "They are afraid of Dust," said Serafina Pekkala, "though what that is, I don't know.	陈述句
Who is he?	疑问句
What world does he come from?	疑问句
And, sister, we tried to heal his wound, but we failed.	并列句
We tried the holding spell, but it didn't work.	并列句
Maybe the herbs in this world are less potent than ours.	陈述句
It's too hot here for bloodmoss to grow.	陈述句
" "He's strange," said Ruta Skadi.	陈述句
"He is the same kind as Lord Asriel.	陈述句
Have you looked into his eyes?	疑问句
" 'To tell the truth," said Serafina Pekkala, "I haven't dared.	陈述句
" The two queens sat quietly by the stream.	陈述句
Later Ruta Skadi said, "The girl Lyra.	陈述句
Is this it?	疑问句
